
Cimas Hernando JE(1), Rodríguez-Gordaliza F, Fernández-Díaz MC, López-Muñiz CN, 
Camblor A, Villanueva M.

Author information:
(1)Hospital San Agustń, Avilés, Asturias.

OBJECTIVE: To find the sort of information given to cancer patients in PC and 
the factors which affect the disclosure of the diagnosis.
DESIGN: A descriptive crossover study, carried out through a personal interview.
SETTING: A county hospital with no oncology service.
PATIENTS: All those patients with cancer (histologically confirmed) admitted to 
the hospital during April and May 1993.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Each patient was asked what illness he/she had, 
who told him/her and where, along with his/her sociodemographic details. Later 
the date of diagnosis and the site and spread of the tumour were taken from the 
medical records. Out of 108 patients under study, 8 knew they had cancer, 1 said 
he/she had a tumour and 11 believed they had "something bad". 7 patients had no 
information about their illness and 81 gave alternative diagnoses (inflammation, 
cyst...). Disclosure was more common in the cases of breast cancer, 
haematological cancer and those diagnosed over 6 months previously. No 
significant differences regarding the spread of the tumour or the 
sociodemographic variables were found.
CONCLUSIONS: The disclosure of a diagnosis of cancer is the exception, not the 
rule. Concealment is only abandoned in the case of potentially curable tumours 
and those which offer a longer life expectancy.

PMID: 8962999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


142. Arch Bronconeumol. 1996 Aug-Sep;32(7):375.

[Quality of life in pneumology].

[Article in Spanish]

Díez Herranz A.

Comment in
    Arch Bronconeumol. 1997 May;33(5):257-8.

PMID: 8963520 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


143. Med Tr Prom Ekol. 1996;(5):8-11.

[Causes of disability and decreased vitality potential in the population of the 
Far North].

[Article in Russian]

Bannikova RV.

Critical climate conditions in the Far North were proved to cause unfavorable 
changes in demographic trends and morbidity among the residents of Nenetsky 
national district, especially among the aboriginal population. Expedient and 
opportune prophylactic measures are required.

PMID: 8963584 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


144. Popul Trends. 1996 Summer;(84):14-20.

Population review: (5). The population aged 60 and over.

Grundy EM(1).

Author information:
(1)Age Concern Institute of gerontology King's College London.

The elderly population of the UK is currently growing more slowly than in the 
past, but is becoming older. When the larger post-Second World War birth cohorts 
reach their sixties this trend will be reversed. In comparison with their 
predecessors, more of today's elderly have spouses and children. The proportions 
of divorced people among the elderly, while growing rapidly, are still small. 
Changes in living arrangements have been substantial. Co-residence between 
generations has continued to become less, and living alone more common. The 
number of elderly people with children close at hand has fallen and the 
proportion of very old people living in institutions has increased. Elderly 
people are far less likely to be in paid work than in the past, but provide a 
great deal of the informal care needed by disabled parents and other people aged 
65 or over. Mortality rates at older ages have fallen, but the extent of 
self-reported limiting long-term illness has risen. This may reflect increased 
awareness of health problems among elderly people. More positively, there are 
signs that the extent of serious disability has fallen.

PMID: 8963742 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


145. Can J Public Health. 1996 Jul-Aug;87(4):280-5.

[An indicator of needs for the regional allocation of public health resources in 
Quebec].

[Article in French]

Ferland P(1), Pampalon R, Sauvé J.

Author information:
(1)Régie régionale de la santé et des services sociaux de la 
Mauricie-Bois-Francs, Direction de la santé publique, Drummondville, QC.

This paper proposes an indicator of needs for regional resource allocation in 
public health in Quebec. In the literature, the only reported measure of needs 
for regional resource allocation in public health has two parameters: size of 
population and Potential Years of Life Lost for preventable causes of death 
(APVP-EV). We verified whether APVP-EV were associated with various indices of 
socioeconomic conditions and lifestyle, preventive behaviours, satisfaction with 
social life, healthy life expectancy and some clienteles specific to public 
health. Our analysis indicates that the rate of Potential Years of Life Lost by 
avoidable causes is significantly related to all variables except satisfaction 
with social life. We therefore propose using size of population and its rate of 
APVP-EV to determine regional allocation of resources in public health.

PMID: 8964026 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


146. Chir Ital. 1995;47(3):18-23.

[Lobar bronchoplasty for tumor. Surgical technique and long-term results].

[Article in Italian]

Motta G(1), Nahum MA, Testa T, Spinelli E, Gasparo A, de Bernardis E.

Author information:
(1)Cattedra di Patologia Speciale Chirurgica II, Università degli Studi di 
Genova.

Between 1978 and 1994, 55 patients (53 men and 2 women) with a mean age of 62 
years underwent an extended lobectomy to the main bronchus, with bronchial 
re-anastomosis, for bronchogenic tumours located around the lobar orifice. There 
were 32 upper sleeve lobectomies (58%) with a wedge resection of carina in one 
instance, 7 lower mono/bilobectomies with an upper lobe "turn up" re-anastomosis 
(13%) and 16 upper wedge lobectomies (29%). Squamous cell carcinoma was 
predominant (32 patients, 58%), while the adenocarcinoma was present in 16%, 
adenosquamous in 5%, microcitoma in 9%, carcinoid in 4% and a well 
differentiated neuro-endocrine carcinoma in 2%. The indication for the 
bronchoplastic procedure was judged to be when the FEV, value was about -25% of 
the normal; in a few patients still in good respiratory condition, an elective 
indication was also admitted. Postoperative staging was: Stage 0 in 1 patient, 
Stage I in 7 patients; Stage II in 10 patients; Stage III A in 31 patients; 
Stage III B in 5 patients and Stage IV in 1 patient. Follow-up was completed 
with a mean extension of 40 months (range 3 months-16 years). There was no 
operative mortality in Stages I and II as well as in Stages III B and IV, while 
it was 9% in Stage III A patients. Survival rates according to the stage were as 
following: 66% 5 and 10 year for Stage I disease; 56% 5 year and 45% 10 year for 
Stage II disease; 7% 4 year for Stage III A. None of 5 patients belonging to 
Stage III B has survived for more than 18 months (mean 7). Some single survivals 
are mentioned because of their special clinical features. Besides stressing the 
absolute value of survival rates obtained in Stage I and II disease, the Author 
also point out the clinical role of these advanced surgical techniques in 
improving both the survival length and the quality of life, when applied for the 
treatment of more advanced Stage III A.

PMID: 8964093 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


147. Chir Ital. 1995;47(3):34-8.

[Locally advanced non-small cell lung tumors: curative or palliative 
radiotherapy].

[Article in Italian]

Scarpati D(1), Scolaro T.

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Radiologia dell'Università di Genova.

The best treatment for inoperable "non small cell" lung cancer remains unknown. 
While metastatic patients are usually treated palliatively, the therapeutic 
course for locally advanced disease is less clear cut and more controversial. 
The common habit was been to treat these patients only when disturbing symptoms 
are present. But this is now changing, because defined radiotherapy techniques 
and combinations with chemotherapy and/or radiosensitizers produce better 
results. Also, in palliative treatments new dose-fractionalised schemes are 
being sought, with the aim of less discomfort and better efficacy. Two clinical 
trials are presented. The first is a palliative, 10 Gy single-dose treatment of 
17 patients with chest symptoms. Results have been encouraging: 67% symptoms 
palliated at 1 month from treatment. Palliation was however short: 42% at 2 
months, 32% at 3 months. The low incidence and mildness of acute complications 
in this small number of patients permit us to conclude that the treatment is 
feasible and tolerable; short-lived palliation could be used in patients with a 
short life expectancy. In the second study, was a multimodality 
treatment-polychemotherapy (Cisplatin 100 mg/mq days 1, 22 and Vinblastine 5 
mg/mq days 1, 8, 15, 22) followed by radiotherapy (60 Gy/30 fractions/42 days) 
with Cisplatin (5 mg/mq/d) as a radiosensitizer. 15 patients have been 
recruited, but only 7 could be evaluated. 5/7 objective responses were observed 
(3 complete). Whole acute toxicity is acceptable. The lack of data concerning 
late toxicity does not allow conclusions about the feasibility of this 
therapeutic.

PMID: 8964097 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


148. Diabetes Res Clin Pract. 1996 Feb;30 Suppl:67-70. doi: 
10.1016/s0168-8227(96)80040-4.

Determinants for coronary heart disease in non-insulin-dependent diabetes 
mellitus: lessons from the diabetes intervention study.

Hanefeld M(1), Schmechel H, Julius U, Schwanebeck U.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Metabolic Research, Medical Faculty, Technical 
University Dresden, Germany.

In NIDDM a clustering of established coronary risk factors, e.g. the metabolic 
syndrome is responsible for excessive incidence of myocardial infarction. The 
harmful effects of these risk factors are aggravated by poor glucose control. 
Hyperinsulinaemia is associated with a higher level of risk factors for coronary 
heart disease. Individuals with subsequent myocardial infarction exhibit higher 
levels of serum insulin at entry. However, insulin in multivariate analysis was 
no independent risk factor. Perfect control of blood glucose, triglycerides and 
blood pressure was associated with a lower incidence of coronary heart disease. 
By extrapolation an integrated approach to correct the anomalies of the 
metabolic syndrome seems to be necessary to prevent macroangiopathy and improve 
life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0168-8227(96)80040-4
PMID: 8964195 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


149. Gac Med Mex. 1994 Jul-Aug;130(4):210-7.

[9 reflexions on health and medical education in Mexico].

[Article in Spanish]

Narro J(1).

Author information:
(1)Facultad de Medicina de la UNAM.

In Mexico's case, the fields of healthcare and medical education are closely 
vinculated. On the other hand, contemporary society lives in a deep 
transformation process. In the present article, some paradoxes and contrasts in 
relation to health and medical education characterize the reality in Mexico. 
Particular emphasis is made on the analysis of the profound differences which 
exist between the two federative entities which present the extreme figures on 
life expectancy at birth. The thesis which supports the document, recognizes the 
need for integral analysis of the organizational and administrative processes of 
healthcare and medical education in Mexico.

PMID: 8964327 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


150. J Neurol. 1996 Apr;243(4):329-36. doi: 10.1007/BF00868407.

Ecological correlates of motor neuron disease mortality: a hypothesis concerning 
an epidemiological association with radon gas and gamma exposure.

Neilson S(1), Robinson I, Rose FC.

Author information:
(1)John Bevan MND Research Unit, Department of Human Sciences, University of 
West London, Uxbridge, Middlesex, UK.

This study investigates variations in motor neuron disease (MND) mortality rates 
between the counties of England and Wales from 1981 to 1989, and their 
relationship with gamma-ray dose rates, indoor radon gas concentrations and 
enhanced general life expectancy. A strong correlation was confirmed between 
age-adjusted rates of MND mortality and life expectancy. Weaker, but 
statistically significant, associations were observed between indoor radon gas 
concentrations, terrestrial gamma radiation and marginal variations in MND 
mortality. Life expectancy and radon gas concentrations were positively 
associated with MND mortality rates whilst gamma radiation was negatively 
associated. The negative correlation of gamma radiation with MND mortality may 
be understood with reference to its negative effects on overall population life 
expectancy. Radon gas concentrations seemingly account for a small elevation in 
MND mortality, amounting to at most 4% of total deaths. Further research is 
required to investigate this association.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00868407
PMID: 8965106 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


151. J Med Liban. 1995;43(2):102-6.

[Health in the third age. Preventing handicaps related to aging].

[Article in French]

Svanborg A(1), Sel ker L.

Author information:
(1)Département de Médecine, University of Illinois, Chicago, USA.

PMID: 8965303 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


152. Nord Med. 1996 Oct;111(8):259-63.

[Depression--a serious, lifelong but treatable illness].

[Article in Swedish]

von Knorring L(1).

Author information:
(1)Institutionen för psykiatri, Akademiska Sjukhuset, Uppsala.

The prevalence of depressive disorders appears to be on the increase, and age at 
onset to be successively declining. In most cases, it is a question of a 
lifelong disorder with recurrent episodes, which it has been estimated will 
occupy 20 per cent of the patient's remaining lifespan. As a group, patients 
with depressive disorders are characterised by high mortality (even if suicide 
cases are excluded) on a par with the rates for cancer, diabetes and ischaemic 
heart disease: they often have somatic disorders, and are high consumers of 
pharmaceutical drugs of all categories. Modern classification systems with well 
defined criteria for the depressive disorders and new drugs have facilitated 
treatment. Studies have shown that increased knowledge among GPs of the 
diagnosis and treatment of depressive disorders can have a pronounced effect on 
the level of public health.

PMID: 8966104 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


153. Prax Kinderpsychol Kinderpsychiatr. 1996 Jul-Aug;45(6):198-205.

[2 forms of identification with the aggressor--according to Ferenczi and Anna 
Freud].

[Article in German]

Hirsch M.

Severe traumatic aggression in the intrafamilial development, as in political 
persecution, torture and concentration camp terror, can be psychically coped 
with the identificatory acception of and submission to the overwhelming power. 
FERENCZI first described this mechanism as a result of sexual abuse, physical 
mistreatment and the terrorism of chronically ill parents against their 
children. The victim introjects the terror, identifies himself with it and so 
remains victim throughout his life by repetition compulsion. ANNA FREUD has used 
the term 'identification with the aggressor' in the case of children showing 
more ego-strength, which are able to defend aggressively a feared attack by 
identification with it. FERENCZIS discoveries signify an important extension of 
psychoanalytic theory especially for the understanding of severe personality 
disorders and the internalization process of traumatic power.

PMID: 8966185 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


154. Rev Invest Clin. 1996 May-Jun;48(3):191-8.

[Colon cancer at the National Institiue of Nutrition. I. Treatment results from 
1979 to 1989].

[Article in Spanish]

León-Rodríguez E(1), Candelaria Hernández M.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Hemato-oncología, Instituto Nacional de la Nutrición Salvador 
Zubirán, México, D.F.

OBJECTIVE: To establish the resectability, overall survival, perioperative 
morbidity and mortality and response to adjuvant chemotherapy during the period 
1979-1989 at the Instituto Nacional de la Nutrición Salvador Zubirán for 
patients with carcinoma of the colon retrospectively reviewed.
RESULTS: One hundred and thirty two patients were staged according to 
Dukes-Astler as follows: 6 in stage A, 7 in B1, 45 in B2, 33 in C and 41 in D. 
Surgery was performed on 91 patients (69%) for curative purposes and in 31 for 
palliative purposes. No surgical procedure was possible on 10 of the cases. 
Postsurgery morbidity was found in 25% of the cases: the most frequent were 
intraabdominal infection, fistula formation, and dehiscence of the enteral 
anastomosis. The surgical mortality was 9.6%. The actuarial survival at 8 years 
is 90% for patients in stages A and B1, 75% for stage B2, and 30% for stage C. 
In 47 patients in stages B2 and C, adjuvant chemotherapy was administered as 
follows: FAM regimen in 12; FABcnu in 14; MTX/5FU (sequential) in 14; and other 
in 7 cases; 35 individuals did not receive adjuvant chemotherapy (13 were in 
stage B1 and 22 in stages B2 and C). There was no significant difference in 
survival for this last group versus those with chemotherapy but the patients 
with MTX-5FU showed a longer survival (82%) and FAM (77%) as compared with 
surgery only (61%) at five years of diagnosis.
CONCLUSIONS: In our experience 70% of the cases were resectable at the time of 
diagnosis. Perioperative morbidity and mortality were similar to those reported 
in the literature. Given the retrospective character of our study, our 
conclusions on adjuvant chemotherapy are not definitive.

PMID: 8966380 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


155. Scand J Rheumatol Suppl. 1996;103:75-8; discussion 79-80. doi: 
10.3109/03009749609103753.

Prevention of hip fractures by correcting calcium and vitamin D insufficiencies 
in elderly people.

Meunier P(1).

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Rheumat. and Bone Disease Hopital Edouard Herriot, Lyon, France.

For a 50-year old caucasian woman today, the risk of a hip fracture over her 
remaining lifetime is about 17%. Tomorrow the situation will clearly be worse 
because the continual increase in life expectancy will cause a 3-fold rise in 
worldwide fracture incidence over the next 60 years, particularly in women, but 
also in men. In addition, a secular increase in the incidence of hip fractures 
in individuals of the same age has been noted in both sexes by several 
investigators, and the cost of hip fractures is expected to dramatically 
increase in the next decades. Consequently, preventive strategies are urgently 
required. A great deal has been learned in recent years about the risk factors 
for hip fracture, the pathophysiology of this fracture, and the prediction of 
fracture risk, particularly through bone mass measurements on the hip and 
biochemical evaluations of parathyroid and vitamin D status. The two main 
determinants of hip fractures are falls and bone loss leading to an intrinsic 
femoral fragility. A substantial femoral bone loss continues throughout the old 
age, with a continuous and exponential increase in the risk of hip fracture, and 
any reduction or arrest of this loss will induce an important reduction in the 
incidence of hip fractures. A preventive effect on the risk of hip fracture may 
be partly achieved by using long term estrogen replacement therapy after 
menopause, but also by using vitamin D and calcium supplements for a late 
prevention in elderly people. Vitamin D insufficiency and deficit in calcium 
intake are very common in elderly people living either in institutions or at 
home, particularly in Europe where dairy products are not fortified with vitamin 
D. The cumulative response to this deficit in calcium intake and low vitamin D 
status is a negative calcium balance which stimulates parathyroid hormone 
secretion. In 300 residents of nursing homes, we recently found a significant 
negative correlation between serum 25 OHD and log serum PTH after 
age-adjustment. In addition, in 446 elderly women living at home in 5 French 
cities and selected from the voting lists, we also found an age-adjusted 
relationship between serum 25 OHD and PTH concentrations. This senile secondary 
hyperparathyroidism is one of the determinants of femoral bone loss and can be 
reversed by calcium and vitamin D supplements. We have shown in a 3-year 
controlled prospective study that the daily use of these supplements (1.2 g of 
calcium and 800 IU of vitamin D3) given in a large population of 3270 elderly 
ambulatory women living in nursing homes reduced of 23% (intention-to-treat 
analysis) the number of hip fractures and other non vertebral fractures. In 
parallel, serum perathyroid hormone concentration was reduced of 28% and low 
serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D concentration returned to normal values. After 18 
months of treatment the bone density of the total proximal femoral region had 
increased 2.7% the vitamin D3-calcium group and decreased 4.6% in the placebo 
group (p < 0.001). This prevention is safe and can be recommended in people 
living in institutions. It could be also useful in other elderly subjects 
particularly at risk because of a low calcium intake, an absence of solar 
exposure and a previous history of falls. From the data of our study we assessed 
the economic consequences in terms of medical cost of this prevention. In case 
of treatment of all women living in nursing homes in France, this would saved FF 
150000000 per year, the economic balance of prevention becoming positive as soon 
as the age of the beginning of the prevention reaches 73.5 years. It is now 
possible to partly stop bone loss in elderly people and it is never too late to 
prevent hip fractures with calcium and vitamin D supplements.

DOI: 10.3109/03009749609103753
PMID: 8966494 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


156. Salud Publica Mex. 1996 Jul-Aug;38(4):236-42.

[Incidence and fatality of the acute and chronic complications of diabetes 
mellitus in Mexico].

[Article in Spanish]

Escobedo-de la Pena J(1), Rico-Verdín B.

Author information:
(1)División de Epidemiología, Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social.

OBJECTIVE: To analyze the secular trend of the incidence and fatality rates of 
diabetic complications in Mexico.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: All diabetes mellitus(DM)-related hospital records for the 
1985-1994 period, from the Mexican Institute for Social Security were reviewed.
RESULTS: An increasing trend in the incidence of diabetic complications was 
observed for the last decade. The most frequent complication is diabetes-related 
end-stage renal disease, followed by peripheral arterial disease. There is an 
important age effect in the occurrence of diabetic complications. Diabetic 
ketoacidosis is the most common complication in the early years of life. 
Fatality due to DM has decreased, mainly that due to acute complications.
CONCLUSIONS: Diabetic complications have increased due to the increase in the 
incidence of DM and in the life expectancy of diabetics. There is a need to 
study the true incidence of DM and of diabetic complications in Mexico, and to 
insist in an adequate metabolic control to delay or avoid their occurrence.

PMID: 8966628 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


157. Tijdschr Gerontol Geriatr. 1996 Oct;27(5):197-205.

[Hospital admission of nursing home patients considered but not carried out: 
role of the nursing home physician and the involved parties and various 
differences with realized hospital admissions].

[Article in Dutch]

Konings JW(1), Danse JA, Wendte JF, Ribbe MW.

Author information:
(1)EMGO, Vakgroep Huisarts-, Verpleeghuis- en Sociale Geneeskunde, Vrije 
Universiteit te Amsterdam.

The objective of the study was to establish in which way nursing home patients, 
for whom is refrained from hospitalization, differ from hospitalized nursing 
home patients. The question was also raised of how the decision to refrain from 
hospitalization is taken: which point of view and method the nursing home 
physician has, on which arguments decisions are based and which parties are 
involved and in which way. The design of the study was retrospective and 
descriptive. Data obtained from semi-structured interviews held in 1987 with 24 
nursing home physicians on 45 situations were compared with registration data on 
387 hospitalizations of patients from 30 nursing homes. In the non-hospitalized 
patients malignancies were relatively more frequent than in the hospitalized 
patients (29% versus 7%). The mean age of hospitalized patients was 78 and of 
non-hospitalized patients 80 years. The physical condition of non-hospitalized 
patients was more frequently judged as poor and the life expectancy as more 
limited. Already at an early stage nursing home physicians appeared to have a 
point of view, with which they determined the decision making procedure: in 
favour of (40%), opposing (35%) and in doubt of hospitalization (25%). In 
'non-hospitalizations' there was much more involvement in decision making of 
family members and nurses, and less involvement of patients and medical 
specialists than in decisions to hospitalization. Non-medical arguments opposing 
hospitalization had slightly the upper hand above medical arguments. The 
decisive arguments opposing hospitalization were in the case of psychogeriatric 
patients more often of medical origin than in the case of somatic patients. The 
'quality of live' mentioned arguments were of limited importance. The nursing 
home physician needs good communicative qualities in such decision making 
processes. He has to be skilled to judge competency of patients and, if needed, 
to balance in the right way the information of relatives, nurses, colleagues and 
specialists.

PMID: 8966747 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


158. Versicherungsmedizin. 1996 Aug 1;48(4):116-25.

[Menopause and postmenopause. Prognostic criteria in insurance medicine].

[Article in German]

Schiefeling M(1).

Author information:
(1)Münchener Rück-versicherungs-Gesellschaft.

The increasing proportion of elderly people in the population is presenting 
politics, society and also medicine with significant new challenges. Gerontology 
and geriatrics play a role in every area of preventive and curative medicine. 
Since the life expectancy of women is about 8 years longer than that of men and 
the greater portion of an aging society will be female, gynaecology takes on 
special significance. The necessity of developing old-age gynaecology becomes 
more and more urgent, particularly in view of the fact that postmenopausal women 
still have more than one third of their lives before them, a period which they 
would like to and should spend in good mental, psychological and physical 
condition. Postmenopausal hormone replacement therapy has been remarkably 
successful in treating climateric complaints and in positively affecting the 
entire organism. The ability of women to virtually avert later consequences of 
the hormone deficiency, including osteoporosis-induced fractures, heart attacks 
and strokes, by means of long-term hormone replacement is one of the great 
achievements of our time. Furthermore, the importance of hormone replacement 
therapy in the possible reduction of certain types of genital cancer, as 
endometrial and ovarial carcinoma, cannot be overstated. Gynaecology has taken a 
great step toward enabling older women to spend this third stage of their lives 
free of unnecessary disease or suffering. There is a consensus in literature and 
among medical experts today that the advantages of estrogen replacement during 
and following menopause have been proven and are to be highly regarded. The 
advantages and risks of hormone therapy will be explored from the special 
standpoint of morbidity and mortality ratings, particularly for the disease 
patterns of osteoporosis, Alzheimer's disease, heart attack, stroke, as well as 
breast, endometrial, ovarial and colon cancer. For insurance medicine, these 
aspects are of paramount significance. Quantification with regard to morbidity 
and mortality statistics is a challenge that will have to be faced in the years 
to come.

PMID: 8966848 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


159. Versicherungsmedizin. 1996 Aug 1;48(4):134-7.

[Subarachnoid hemorrhage from cerebral artery aneurysm within the context of a 
fall: external or internal etiology?].

[Article in German]

Moskopp D(1), Wassmann H.

Author information:
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik für Neurochirurgie WWU Münster.

A neurosurgical expertise had to be performed to answer the following question: 
Was a subarachnoid hemorrhage from a cerebral aneurysm the cause or the result 
of the fall of a 60 year old man? And with which degree of certainty can this 
question be answered? It is argued that any statements in this respect cannot 
but have the degree of a "possibility" (i.e. nearly 30% of the truth). From a 
medlineR-research data to estimate the prevalence of cerebral aneurysms (1% of 
all inhabitants) and the incidence of subarachnoid hemorrhage (10/100,000/yr.) 
became available (assuming a mean life expectancy of 75 years). It is argued 
that presumably every fourth cerebral aneurysm does not rupture during lifetime. 
Insofar there is a "scientifically based possibility" that the case under 
discussion suffered from a subarachnoid hemorrhage resulting from a fall from 
height as an outer cause of a significant deterioration of a hitherto silent 
inborn disease.

PMID: 8966851 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


160. Z Rheumatol. 1996 Jul-Aug;55(4):230-2.

[Indicators of work incapacity in patients with musculoskeletal diseases and 
functional disorders].

[Article in German]

Stucki G.

Comment on
    Z Rheumatol. 1996 Jul-Aug;55(4):233-40.

PMID: 8967182 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


161. Am J Phys Anthropol. 1996 Feb;99(2):259-74. doi: 
10.1002/(SICI)1096-8644(199602)99:2<259::AID-AJPA4>3.0.CO;2-U.

Causes of early human population growth.

Pennington RL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa 35487-0210, 
USA.

The archaeological record indicates large increases in human population 
coincident with the emergence of food production about 10,000 years ago. The 
cause of the growth is unclear. Extreme views attribute the change to increases 
in the birth rate or to decreases in the death rate. Many argue that sedentism 
led to improved ovarian function and higher fertility through higher caloric 
intakes or reduced activity levels. Similarly, shortened lactation periods may 
have reduced birth spacing and increased fertility. Others attribute the rise in 
population to decreases in mortality, arguing that the evidence from skeletal 
populations indicates improvements in health and the expectation of life at 
birth, though others use the same evidence to argue that mortality increased. An 
analysis presented here draws on findings that indicate substantial increases in 
the survival of young children as populations switch from nomadic to sedentary 
lives. Projections indicate that this improvement in child survival is so 
critical that it may be followed by substantially larger decreases in survival 
at later ages, yet result in higher population growth rates and reduced 
expectation of life at birth. Increases in the birth rate are not necessary for 
population growth, even when overall mortality increases. Large increases in 
overall mortality can be associated with large increases in population. Because 
positive population growth can occur while the expectation of life at birth 
declines, this analysis shows that this summary statistic is not an appropriate 
indicator of population fitness.

PIP: The archaeological record indicates large increases in human population 
coincident with the emergence of food production about 10,000 years ago. 
However, the cause of this growth is unclear. Some attribute the change to 
increase in the birth rate or to decreases in the death rate, while others argue 
that sedentism led to improved ovarian function and higher fertility through 
higher caloric intakes or reduced activity levels. Shortened lactation periods 
may have reduced birth spacing and increased fertility. Still, others attribute 
the rise in population to decreases in mortality, arguing that the evidence from 
skeletal populations indicates improvements in health and the expectation of 
life at birth. The author uses a 1975 model developed by Brass and modified by 
Ewbank et al. in 1983 to describe changes in mortality patterns which mimic the 
proposed improvements in child survival following the transition to agriculture. 
The goal is to make sense of seemingly paradoxical population statistics while 
showing that they are consistent with interpretations of the archaeological 
record. Available data indicate that there were substantial increases in the 
survival of young children as populations switched from nomadic to sedentary 
lives. Projections indicate that such improvement in child survival was so 
important that it may have been followed by substantially larger decreases in 
survival at later ages, yet resulted in higher population growth rates and 
reduced expectation of life at birth. Increases in the birth rate are not 
necessary for population growth, even when overall mortality increases.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1096-8644(199602)99:2<259::AID-AJPA4>3.0.CO;2-U
PMID: 8967327 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


162. Cancer Res. 1996 Dec 1;56(23):5309-18.

Tumor malignancy defined by aberrant glycosylation and sphingo(glyco)lipid 
metabolism.

Hakomori S(1).

Author information:
(1)Pacific Northwest Research Foundation, Department of Pathobiology, University 
of Washington, Seattle 98195, USA.

Aberrant glycosylation expressed in glycosphingolipids and glycoproteins in 
tumor cells has been implicated as an essential mechanism in defining stage, 
direction, and fate of tumor progression. This general concept is supported by 
results from three lines of study: (a) Numerous clinicopathological studies have 
shown a clear correlation between aberrant glycosylation status of primary tumor 
and invasive/metastatic potential of human cancer as reflected by 5- or 10-year 
survival rates of patients. (b) Carbohydrates expressed in tumor cells are 
either adhesion molecules per se or modulate adhesion receptor function. Some 
are directly involved in cell adhesion. They are recognized by selectins or 
other carbohydrate-binding proteins or by complementary carbohydrates (through 
carbohydrate-carbohydrate interaction). N- or O-glycosylation of functionally 
important membrane components may alter tumor cell adhesion or motility in a 
direction that either promotes or inhibits invasion and metastasis. Examples of 
such receptors are E-cadherin, integrins, immunoglobulin family receptors (e.g., 
CD44), and lysosome-associated membrane protein. (c) Gangliosides and 
sphingolipids modulate transmembrane signaling essential for tumor cell growth, 
invasion, and metastasis. The transducer molecules susceptible to gangliosides 
and sphingolipids include integrin receptors, tyrosine kinase-linked growth 
factor receptors, protein kinase C, and G-protein-linked receptor affecting 
protein kinase A. Some glycosphingolipids (e.g., Gb3Cer, Le(y), ceramide, and 
sphingosine induce tumor cell differentiation and subsequent apoptosis. Shedded 
gangliosides may block immunogenicity of tumor cells, providing conditions 
favorable for "escape" from immunological suppression of tumor growth by the 
host. Various reagents that block carbohydrate-mediated tumor cell adhesion or 
block glycosylation processing have been shown to inhibit tumor cell metastasis. 
This provides the basis for further development of "anti-adhesion therapy." 
Ganglioside analogues and sphingolipid analogues that inhibit protein kinase C 
and receptor-associated tyrosine kinase have been applied for inhibition of 
metastasis. A crucial mechanism for inhibition of metastasis by these reagents 
may involve blocking of transmembrane signaling for expression of P- and 
E-selectin. This provides the basis for development of "ortho-signaling 
therapy."

PMID: 8968075 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


163. Crit Care Med. 1996 Dec;24(12):1962-7. doi:
10.1097/00003246-199612000-00006.

Five-year survival after intensive care--comparison of 12,180 patients with the 
general population. Finnish ICU Study Group.

Niskanen M(1), Kari A, Halonen P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Intensive Care, Kuopio University Hospital, Finland.

OBJECTIVES: A) To examine the long-term survival of critically ill patients 
compared with the general population in a nationwide sample of patients 
requiring intensive care; and b) to analyze long-term survival stratified by 
specific diagnostic subgroups.
DESIGN: Prospective, inception cohort study.
SETTING: Twenty-five Finnish Intensive care units (ICUs) at 17 hospitals, 
including 13 ICUs in five tertiary care centers.
PATIENTS: A consecutive sample of 12,180 adult patients who were admitted to 
ICUs in 1987. The sample was further divided into seven diagnostic subgroups.
INTERVENTIONS: None.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Vital status at 5 yrs after admission to an ICU 
was examined and compared to the age- and gender-adjusted survival of Finland's 
general population. Among ICU patients, the 5-yr mortality rate was 3.3 times 
that of Finland's general population (95% confidence interval 3.0 to 3.4). At 2 
yrs, the survival rate paralleled that of the general population. At 5 yrs, the 
relative survival rate of the ICU patients was 66.7%. Cancer was a strong 
determinant of a poor outcome in multivariate analysis (relative risk 3.17; 95% 
confidence interval 2.86 to 3.51). The 5-yr mortality rate of the ICU patients 
compared with the general population was highest among patients admitted to the 
ICU after intoxication. Trauma victims and patients admitted to the ICU with a 
cardiovascular diagnosis reached the risk of death of the general population in 
the shortest time.
CONCLUSIONS: ICU patients reached a life expectancy similar to the general 
population, on average, 2 yrs after admission. The time after which the survival 
parallels that of the general population depends, however, on the diagnostic 
category.

DOI: 10.1097/00003246-199612000-00006
PMID: 8968262 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


164. New Horiz. 1996 Nov;4(4):551-7.

Systematic reviews, economic evaluations, and practice guidelines: can research 
synthesis help us care for the critically ill?

Cook DJ(1), Ellrodt AG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, McMaster University Faculty of Health Sciences, St. 
Joseph's Hospital, Hamilton, ON, Canada.

Blending the art and science of medicine in the ICU setting is a growing 
challenge, given modern technological advances, spiraling healthcare costs, and 
the need to carefully consider evidence from the biomedical literature in our 
practice. Rather than keeping up to date with all primary research relevant to 
critical care, intensivists are increasingly seeking synthetic research to help 
with their day-to-day decision-making. Synthetic research includes systematic 
reviews, practice guidelines, and economic evaluations. These publications can 
address questions of prevention, diagnosis, treatment, rehabilitation, and/or 
palliation, thereby helping intensivists to integrate the results of sound 
research at the bedside.

PMID: 8968987 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


165. Stroke. 1996 Dec;27(12):2271-3. doi: 10.1161/01.str.27.12.2271.

Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty of the symptomatic atherosclerotic carotid 
arteries. Results, complications, and follow-up.

Gil-Peralta A(1), Mayol A, Marcos JR, Gonzalez A, Ruano J, Boza F, Duran F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Hospital Universitario Virgen del Rocio, Seville, 
Spain.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Carotid endarterectomy reduces stroke risk in patients 
with > 70% symptomatic stenosis. We present our results of percutaneous 
transluminal angioplasty (PTA) as an alternative treatment.
METHODS: Ninety-eight patients with symptomatic > 70% stenosis of the internal 
carotid artery were considered for PTA. Details of the procedure, complications, 
and 4-year follow-up were registered.
RESULTS: Eighty-five PTAs were performed in a 4-year period. Transient 
cardiovascular effects were frequent: hypotension (54.1%), bradycardia (67.1%), 
asystole (25.9%), and syncope (16.5%). Transient ischemic attack occurred in 3 
of 82 patients (3.7%), and disabling stroke occurred in 4 (4.9%); mortality was 
0%. After a mean follow-up period of 18.7 months, 4 patients died, 1 due to 
fatal stroke. The overall probability of surviving any stroke or death was 
86.7%. Restenosis (> 70%) was seen in 6 cases (7.4%).
CONCLUSIONS: PTA may be a reasonable treatment for symptomatic atherosclerotic 
stenosis, at least in patients at high risk for carotid endarterectomy.

DOI: 10.1161/01.str.27.12.2271
PMID: 8969792 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


166. AIDS. 1996 Dec;10 Suppl 3:S69-74.

HIV and development.

Decosas J(1).

Author information:
(1)ProAction, Montreal, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Epidemics of disease are milestones in the history of humanity, 
nodes in the web of causes and consequences which shape the development of 
societies. HIV has been with us for long enough to reveal global patterns of 
distribution which can be linked to currently accepted indicators of social 
development. Its highest prevalence is found in poor societies, societies in 
turmoil, among the displaced, the powerless, and the marginalized. The 
prevalence of HIV is an indicator of uneven or dysfunctional social development.
DISCUSSION: How HIV will affect the development of nations is difficult to 
predict. A major impact on national macro-economic indicators such as gross 
national product is unlikely. The most important social and economic effect of 
the epidemic in developing countries will be an increasing gap between rich and 
poor, and the feminization of poverty.

PIP: Global patterns of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and acquired 
immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) are consistent with indicators of social 
development. The highest HIV prevalence is found in poor societies, societies in 
turmoil, and among the displaced, powerless, and marginalized. AIDS is an 
indicator of uneven or dysfunctional development, a cause of developmental 
delays, and a result of inadequacies in the development of health and social 
services. Factors such as untreated sexually transmitted diseases, the education 
of women and their level of autonomy to seek medical care, the availability and 
quality of medical services, large age differences between men and women in 
sexual partnerships, prostitution as a means of economic survival, and labor 
migration and refugee movements play key roles in the generation of AIDS 
epidemics. The impact of HIV on the feminization of poverty and the 
maldistribution of household wealth is one of the most significant developmental 
effects. In areas with high HIV prevalence, crop yields and soil fertility are 
declining, pests and plant diseases are spreading, and starchy crops of low 
nutritional value are replacing more labor-intensive traditional crops. Finally, 
AIDS exerts a major impact on the human development index, especially life 
expectancy at birth.

PMID: 8970714 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


167. Bone Marrow Transplant. 1996 Dec;18(6):1057-64.

GM-CSF accelerates neutrophil recovery after autologous hematopoietic stem cell 
transplantation.

Greenberg P(1), Advani R, Keating A, Gulati SC, Nimer S, Champlin R, Karanes C, 
Gorin NC, Powles RL, Smith A, Lamborn K, Cuffie C.

Author information:
(1)Stanford University Hospital, CA, USA.

Patients with non-myeloid hematologic malignancies (including Hodgkin's and 
non-Hodgkin's lymphomas, myeloma and acute lymphoid leukemia) or solid tumors 
underwent cytoreductive conditioning regimens followed by either autologous bone 
marrow transplantation (ABMT) (n = 343) or transplantation of peripheral blood 
stem cells (PBSC) with (n = 44) or without bone marrow (BM) (n = 16). In a 
randomized double-blind phase III multi-center trial, patients received either 
granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF, 10 micrograms/kg/day) 
or placebo by daily i.v. infusion beginning 24 h after bone marrow infusion and 
continuing until the absolute neutrophil count (ANC) had recovered to > or = 
1000/mm3, or for a maximum of 30 days. Median time to neutrophil recovery was 
significantly shorter in the GM-CSF group (18 vs 27 days, P < 0.001), and more 
GM-CSF patients had neutrophil recovery by day 30 (70 vs 48%). Median duration 
of hospitalization was significantly shorter in the GM-CSF group (29 vs 32 days, 
P = 0.02). GM-CSF significantly reduced the median time to neutrophil recovery 
in patients receiving bone marrow only (19 vs 27 days, P < 0.001) or PBSC with 
or without bone marrow (14 vs 21 days, P < 0.001). The overall incidence of 
adverse events was comparable in the two groups, although more patients in the 
GM-CSF group discontinued treatment due to adverse events (17 vs 9%, P < 0.001). 
No difference was noted in infection incidence or time to platelet independence. 
GM-CSF had no negative impact on time to relapse or long-term survival. These 
data indicate the positive influence of GM-CSF on neutrophil recovery and 
hospital stay in patients receiving ABMT for a variety of clinical indications.

PMID: 8971373 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


168. Bone Marrow Transplant. 1996 Dec;18(6):1111-6.

Juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia: analyses of treatment results in the EORTC 
Children's Leukemia Cooperative Group (CLCG).

Lutz P(1), Zix-Kieffer I, Souillet G, Bertrand Y, Dhooge C, Rubie C, Mazingue F, 
Marguerite F, Machinaud-Lacroix F, Rialland X, Plouvier E, Behar C, Vilmer E, 
Philippe N, Otten J.

Author information:
(1)Service d'Hématologie de I'Enfant de Strasbourg, France.

Forty-six children with juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia (JMML) diagnosed 
between 1978 and 1993 in 12 centers were retrospectively studied. There is no 
evidence that any conventional treatment influences the long-term evolution of 
JMML. Among 28 patients treated without bone marrow transplantation (BMT), 26 
died (median survival: 17 months), two are alive, one in complete remission (CR) 
after intensive chemotherapy. Allogenic BMT is the best treatment: 18 patients 
underwent BMT, 11 are in CR (at 9, 15, 22, 25, 41, 45, 49, 53, 66, 90 and 108 
months). Conditioning regimens using chemotherapy alone may cure some patients 
(3/6) occasionally despite autologous reconstitution (1/3); if relapse occurs, a 
second BMT may be curative (2/3). Among the 12 patients conditioned immediately 
with TBI, six are in CR, one is in relapse, five died (one of them in durable 
autologus CR from Schwannoma). It is our opinion that splenectomy is of 
therapeutic value and seems not to have influenced the incidence of infections 
complications. We found no argument in favor of intensive chemotherapy before 
conditioning. Results with HLA-matched unrelated donors are satisfactory. One 
patient relapsed at 4 months after an unrelated BMT and entered a new CR after 
discontinuation of cyclosporine.

PMID: 8971380 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


169. Bone Marrow Transplant. 1996 Dec;18(6):1167-73.

Autologous bone marrow transplantation for patients with acute myeloblastic 
leukemia in relapse after autologous blood stem cell transplantation.

de la Rubia J(1), Sanz GF, Martín G, Sempere A, Picón I, Carral A, Larrea L, 
Martínez J, Soler MA, Bonanad S, López F, Jarque I, Sanz MA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, La Fe University Hospital, Valencia, Spain.

Leukemic relapse remains the most frequent reason for treatment failure in 
patients with acute myeloblastic leukemia (AML) treated with autologous blood 
stem cell transplantation (ABSCT). The aim of this study was to evaluate the 
possible role of autologous bone marrow transplant (ABMT) in patients with AML 
who relapse after ABSCT. Eighteen consecutive patients were enrolled in the 
study. At ABMT, 17 patients were in untreated relapse and one was in third 
complete remission (CR). The preparative regimen was BAVC, and consisted of BCNU 
800 mg/m2 on day -6, M-AMSA 150 mg/m2/day on days -5 to -3, VP-16 150 mg/m2/day 
on days -5 to -3 and Ara-C 300 mg/m2/day on days -5 to -3. There were two 
regimen-related deaths (11%). Thirteen out of 17 patients in untreated relapse 
before ABMT achieved CR (76%). The cumulative risk of relapse was 58 +/- 13% at 
3 years. Seven patients are in CR between 7+ and 53+ months, with a disease-free 
survival (DFS) probability of 36 +/- 12% at 3 years. The probability of DFS 
after ABMT was clearly higher in those patients relapsing later than 7 months 
after the first autograft (52%) than in patients relapsing earlier (20%)(P = 
0.02). In a significant proportion of patients, remission duration was clearly 
longer after ABMT than ABSCT. We conclude that BAVC conditioning followed by 
ABMT is associated with a low treatment-related toxicity and results in 
prolonged DFS in a substantial number of AML patients who relapse after ABSCT. 
Until better therapeutic options become available, ABMT in untreated relapse is 
a useful alternative in this group of very poor-risk patients.

PMID: 8971390 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


170. Bone Marrow Transplant. 1996 Dec;18 Suppl 3:S21-4.

Impact of myeloablative therapy with bone marrow transplantation in advanced 
neuroblastoma.

Matthay KK(1).

Author information:
(1)Pediatric Clinical Oncology, University of California, San Francisco 
94143-0106, USA.

Current results suggest that purged autologous bone marrow transplant may 
improve outcome for some subsets of high risk neuroblastoma, but the risk of 
relapse is still high.

PMID: 8971402 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


171. Ann Otol Rhinol Laryngol. 1996 Dec;105(12):944-8. doi: 
10.1177/000348949610501203.

Tracheal resection with end-to-end anastomosis for isolated postintubation 
cervical trachea stenosis: long-term results.

Laccourreye O(1), Naudo P, Brasnu D, Jouffre V, Cauchois R, Laccourreye H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology-head and Neck Surgery, Laënnec Hospital, 
University Paris V, France.

A 20-year experience with end-to-end tracheal resection and anastomosis for 
isolated postintubation stenosis of the cervical trachea, in a consecutive 
series of 32 adult patients, has been reviewed. Surgical death was never 
encountered. The overall incidences for superficial wound infection, pneumonia, 
and inferior left laryngeal nerve paralysis were 6.2%, 3.1%, and 3.1%, 
