have not been able to find any stage in the process that does not react with 
iodin, we must conclude that there is none that may be looked upon biologically 
as cancer. Just as iodin invariably stops the hyperplasia and causes the thyroid 
to return to the colloid or resting state (from which it may undergo hyperplasia 
a second, third, or more times, exactly as in mammals), so also spontaneous 
involution occurs when the fish are transferred to a natural environment. This 
spontaneous involution has been followed in experiments and has been seen in 
examples taken at random from the streams. We have never seen an exception to 
this rule, save in the case of true tumors. As pointed out above, recovery does 
not imply a disappearance of the goitre; it implies a cessation of growth and 
return of the active hyperplasia to the colloid or resting stage. Thyroid 
hyperplasia is a compensatory reaction, the exact cause of which is still to be 
sought. There is no evidence that in fish or in man it is either infectious or 
contagious. All the biological data at present available favor the view that 
fish goitre in common with mammalian goitre is the symptomatic manifestation of 
a metabolic and nutritional disturbance. There are three major conditions which, 
in some way still obscure, influence the thyroid growth; namely, a limited water 
supply, overcrowding, and overfeeding with a highly artificial and incomplete 
food. The water of the hatchery observed is not intrinsically goitre-producing, 
as the fish will not develop goitre unless at least the factor of overfeeding 
with an incomplete food operates at the same time. On the other hand, they 
recover if the overfeeding and overcrowding are corrected, although they remain 
in the same water. Therefore it seems probable that the food is the major factor 
acting to bring about a fault of nutrition favorable for goitre development. It 
is impossible at this time to suggest what elements in the food may be at fault, 
whether, for example, it is deficiency or excess or disproportion in the 
relative food values.

DOI: 10.1084/jem.13.4.455
PMCID: PMC2124872
PMID: 19867427


807. J Exp Med. 1912 Nov 1;16(5):680-92. doi: 10.1084/jem.16.5.680.

THE OCCURRENCE AND VIRULENCE OF PNEUMOCOCCI IN THE CIRCULATING BLOOD DURING 
LOBAR PNEUMONIA AND THE SUSCEPTIBILITY OF PNEUMOCOCCUS STRAINS TO UNIVALENT 
ANTIPNEUMOCOCCUS SERUM.

Dochez AR(1).

Author information:
(1)Hospital of The Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research, New York.

Studies of the bacteriology of the blood were made in thirty-seven cases of 
lobar pneumonia. The pneumococcus was isolated from the blood in approximately 
50 per cent. of the cases studied. The course of infection in individuals with 
pneumococcus in the blood was more severe than in those in which no organism 
could be cultivated from the blood. 77 per cent. of the patients with positive 
blood cultures died, and 79 per cent. of patients with negative blood cultures 
recovered. In fatal instances of pneumonia, where the pneumococcus was found in 
the blood, the number of organisms per cubic centimeter of blood was very high 
in the last stage of the disease. In individuals dying of pneumonia without 
blood infection, the disease was characterized by a rapid spread of the local 
process in the lungs. It is not unlikely that the symptoms of collapse, 
developing on the fifth or sixth day of lobar pneumonia, are often the 
expression of serious invasion of the blood by the pneumococcus. In other 
instances, they mark an extension of the local process in the lungs. Strains of 
pneumococcus isolated from the blood of patients with lobar pneumonia were 
usually of high animal virulence. In a few instances where the organism isolated 
from the blood was of low virulence for animals, the patients recovered. The 
protective power of a univalent antipneumococcus serum was tested against 
nineteen strains of typical pneumococcus and against four strains of closely 
allied organisms. The serum manifested some degree of protection against twelve 
out of nineteen strains of typical pneumococci. No protection was observed 
against the atypical organisms. In eight instances the degree of protection 
obtained was high, in three low, and in one there occurred only a prolongation 
of the period of life of the inoculated animal.

DOI: 10.1084/jem.16.5.680
PMCID: PMC2124998
PMID: 19867605


808. J Exp Med. 1916 Jan 1;23(1):39-60. doi: 10.1084/jem.23.1.39.

THE ETIOLOGY OF RAT-BITE FEVER.

Blake FG(1).

Author information:
(1)Medical Clinic of the Peter Bent Brigham Hospital, Boston.

The similarity in the cases of rat-bite fever recorded in the literature 
establishes it as a definite clinical entity. The same symptomatology occurs in 
cases from Asia, Europe, and America. The greater frequency of the disease in 
Japan than elsewhere is probably due to the housing conditions and habits of the 
people resulting in the more frequent occurrence of rat-bites. It does not seem 
necessary to consider that cases occurring in Europe and America are due to the 
bites of rats that have been imported from Japan. The clinical picture and 
course of the disease indicate that it is infectious in origin. Until 
Schottmüller's case appeared in 1914, the etiology had been undiscovered. He 
isolated from his case in eight consecutive blood cultures a streptothrix which 
he has designated Streptothrix muris ratti. His work has been confirmed by the 
isolation of an identical streptothrix from the blood during life and at autopsy 
in the case here reported. Further confirmation of the etiological relationship 
of this organism to the infection in our patient is found in the production of 
powerful agglutinins for the organism in the blood serum of this case and in the 
demonstration of the organism in the vegetation on the mitral valve. It is not 
unreasonable to suppose that Proescher (13) observed the same organism in the 
sections of the excised wound in his case. Although it is fully realized that 
Koch's postulates have not been fulfilled in the absence of successful animal 
experimentation, nevertheless the accumulated evidence here presented leaves 
little reason to doubt that the specific cause of rat-bite fever is Streptothrix 
muris ratti. The pathology of rat-bite fever has hitherto been largely a matter 
of surmise. One autopsy only has been recorded in the literature (Miura (22)), 
and nothing abnormal was noted other than injection of the pial vessels. The 
autopsy in the case here reported has proved of considerable interest in the 
extent and character of the lesions found. A streptothrix septicemia with the 
localization of the organism in the mitral valve producing an acute ulcerative 
endocarditis is the most striking feature of the case. The infarcts of the 
spleen and kidney are a natural sequence of the endocarditis. The subacute 
lesions of the myocardium, liver, adrenal, and kidneys, glomerular and 
interstitial, are all of a similar nature, consisting of areas infiltrated with 
leukocytes, lymphocytes, plasma, and endothelial cells with varying degrees of 
degeneration of the normal cells of the affected area. In no instance has the 
presence of the streptothrix in these lesions been demonstrated, and it is not 
unreasonable to assume that they are toxic in origin. The data here presented 
may be correlated with the clinical features of rat-bite fever to give us a 
clear understanding of the course and nature of the disease. The patient is 
inoculated by the bite of a rat with Streptothrix muris ratti. After a variable 
incubation period a non-suppurative inflammatory reaction occurs at the site of 
the wound with extension to the neighboring lymphatics and lymph nodes. Invasion 
of the blood stream follows, accompanied by the onset of severe toxic symptoms. 
Clinically the nervous system and frequently the kidneys seem to be especially 
involved. That the myocardium, liver, and adrenals may also suffer is shown by 
the autopsy findings in the case reported above. Ulcerative endocarditis is 
probably a rare occurrence. In the majority of cases after a more or less 
prolonged course, the disease terminates spontaneously and so may be considered 
a self-limited infection. This is presumably brought about by the development in 
the body of a protective mechanism against the streptothrix. That such a process 
does occur is evidenced by the demonstration of agglutinins in our case. Whether 
a permanent immunity is acquired after one attack of rat-bite fever is not 
known. No instances of a second infection are recorded in the literature. 
Although rat-bite fever varies somewhat in its symptomatology in individual 
cases, the picture is sufficiently characteristic to make the diagnosis not a 
difficult matter. The history of a rat-bite, latent incubation period with 
subsequent non-suppurative inflammatory reaction of the wound, lymphangitis, and 
enlarged lymph nodes, severe chill at onset, high fever of the relapsing type, 
intense muscular pain and nervous symptoms, and the characteristic bluish red 
exanthem, present a symptom-complex not easily overlooked. The disease is 
frequently complicated by a severe nephritis, and prolonged cases develop a high 
grade of anemia and cachexia. In the case here reported ulcerative endocarditis 
occurred. In the large majority of cases the prognosis is favorable for a 
successful termination. The patients, however, are often incapacitated for a 
considerable period of time The mortality is about 10 per cent, death usually 
occurring in the first febrile period apparently from a profound toxemia, or at 
a later stage due to the development of a severe nephritis. Until recently 
treatment has been entirely symptomatic and has been of little avail in altering 
the course of the disease. Miyake has found immediate treatment of the wound by 
cauterization or with carbolic acid highly efficient as a prophylactic measure. 
Hata (30) in 1912 introduced salvarsan therapy and reported eight cases so 
treated, seven of which showed marked and rapid improvement. One case was 
apparently unaffected. Two of the cases receiving only small doses had a 
subsequent relapse. Surveyor (31) and Dalal (18) also have reported success with 
salvarsan injections. It is to be hoped that further experience with this method 
of treatment will yield equally favorable results.

DOI: 10.1084/jem.23.1.39
PMCID: PMC2125348
PMID: 19867970


809. J Exp Med. 1917 Aug 1;26(2):263-77. doi: 10.1084/jem.26.2.263.

THE RELATION OF APICAL TUBERCULOSIS OF ADULTS TO THE FOCAL TUBERCULOSIS OF 
CHILDREN.

Opie EL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology of Washington University Medical School, St. Louis.

The age incidence of focal tuberculous lesions of the lungs demonstrates that 
they have their origin in most instances in childhood. Focal lesions which heal 
have been found at all ages after the 2nd year of life, but in more than half of 
all individuals these lesions are acquired between the ages of 10 and 18 years. 
In the period between 18 and 30 years at least 85 per cent of all individuals 
have 'acquired focal tuberculous lesions. The occurrence of tuberculous 
infection in the lungs, in regional lymphatic nodes, or in some other organs of 
the body such as the gastrointestinal tract and its lymphatic system, is nearly 
universal but doubtless a few individuals escape. That focal tuberculous lesions 
of the lung are occasionally acquired during adult life is shown by the slight 
increase in the proportion of those with these lesions as age increases from 18 
years to old age. Apical lesions of the lung make their appearance in later 
childhood and occur with increasing frequency from adolescence to old age (50 
per cent). After the 2nd year of life focal tuberculous lesions occurring in 
situations other than the apices of the lungs tend to heal and after the 10th 
year focal lesions are almost invariably encapsulated and latent or healed. 
Fatal tuberculosis after the 10th year is with few exceptions apical in origin. 
The apices are not only more susceptible to infection in later life but once 
infected afford less resistance to the extension of the lesion. The present 
series of cases has furnished opportunity to observe the character of the apical 
lesion in lungs of individuals previously infected with tuberculosis. With one 
exception the apical lesion (in eight instances) has pursued a chronic course 
and, encapsulated by fibrous tissue, has remained limited to the extreme apex of 
the lung. In one instance in a woman with advanced malignant disease chronic 
pulmonary tuberculosis has been progressive. Tuberculosis of the apices in those 
who have previously acquired a focal tuberculous lesion has pursued a chronic 
course and in most instances has remained latent or has completely healed. A 
very small group of instances of fatal pulmonary tuberculosis suggests that 
apical lesions in those who have not undergone previous infection may assume an 
unusually severe character. One instance of apical tuberculosis unaccompanied by 
focal lesions and followed by tuberculosis of the thoracic duct and disseminated 
miliary tuberculosis has been especially significant. Apical tuberculosis 
unaccompanied by evidence of preexisting tuberculosis may be accompanied by 
tuberculosis of the regional lymphatic nodes, whereas apical tuberculosis in an 
individual with a preexistent focal tuberculous lesion is not followed by 
tuberculosis of adjacent lymphatic nodes. It is well known that tuberculosis in 
previously uninfected animals is followed by tuberculosis of adjacent lymphatic 
nodes, whereas a second infection fails to implicate the regional lymphatic 
nodes. This relation has been well illustrated by the lungs of a monkey which 
acquired in confinement acute tuberculous pneumonia limited to the left lung; 
the lymphatic nodes on this side were greatly enlarged and caseous. The 
following observations indicate that apical tuberculosis of adults is not the 
result of infantile tuberculosis but is caused by subsequent infection: (a) 
Apical tuberculosis does not have its highest incidence, in accordance with 
common belief, in early adult life when focal infections acquired in childhood 
are relatively fresh and active but is more common in later life when the focal 
lesions of childhood have in most instances completely healed. It is noteworthy 
that most of these apical lesions of later life pursue a chronic course and are 
discovered at autopsy in individuals who have died from other causes. (b) The 
well characterized lesions of tuberculosis acquired in childhood and found in 
adults with apical lesions are almost invariably calcified and healed. The 
apical lesion is in most instances relatively fresh and caseous whereas the 
focal pulmonary lesion and associated lesions of regional lymphatic nodes 
exhibit no evidence of activity. (c) In a large proportion of instances of 
associated focal and apical tuberculosis the focal lesion is in one lung, 
whereas the apical lesion is limited to the opposite apex. This relation affords 
no support to the view that tuberculous lesions may be transmitted to the apex 
by way of the lymphatics.

DOI: 10.1084/jem.26.2.263
PMCID: PMC2125652
PMID: 19868149


810. J Exp Med. 1921 Aug 31;34(3):295-315. doi: 10.1084/jem.34.3.295.

CRISTISPIRA IN NORTH AMERICAN SHELLFISH. A NOTE ON A SPIRILLUM FOUND IN OYSTERS.

Noguchi H(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratories of The Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research.

Ten varieties of North American shellfish were examined for the occurrence of 
Cristispira in their styles. A cristispira was found in various numbers in 
Ostrea virginiana, Venus mercenaria, and Modiola modiolus, but none in Ensis 
americana, Mya arenaria, Mactra solidissima, Pecten irradians, Mytilus edulis, 
Fulgur canaliculatus, or Nassa obsoleta. Of 298 oysters, only 128 showed the 
crystalline styles, in which cristispiras were present in 99. Active 
cristispiras were found in 59 styles only and degenerated forms in the remaining 
40. In 110 clams (Venus mercenaria) 70 styles were found, and only 8 of these 
contained cristispiras; 5 yielded active and the other 3 degenerated 
cristispiras. In 97 modiolas there were 73 styles, only 4 of which contained 
cristispiras. The physical properties of the crystalline styles of these 
shellfish varied considerably. The styles of the oysters were moderately soft, 
and when exposed to the air or mixed with sea water they underwent liquefaction, 
forming a clear, viscid material. The styles from clams and modiolas were opaque 
and were more firm, not easily crushed even in a mortar. The styles of the 
scallops were the most solid of all the styles examined. It happened that the 
softer the styles, the more frequent was the occurrence of the cristispira; in 
fact, no cristispira was detected in styles other than those of oysters, clams, 
and modiolas, of which oysters had the softest styles and the largest percentage 
of cristispira invasion. The following observations were made regarding the 
structure of the cristispira found in oysters. The body is a long, flexible 
cylinder, with blunt extremities, towards which the diameter gradually 
diminishes. In motion the body rapidly stretches and contracts, forming in the 
contracted state several serpentine undulations. A membranous appendage (Gross' 
crista) winds about the body throughout its entire length. The inner margin is 
in connection with the body, the outer margin is free and is distinctly heavier. 
The latter is undulatory; that is, the width of the membrane, or crista, is 
narrower at some points than at others. The membrane is composed of numerous 
fine fibrils running in a roughly parallel or slightly oblique course, showing 
interwoven narrow meshes; at the outer margin there is a dense smooth ridge. The 
contour of the body is highly refractive, as if possessing a cell membrane. The 
interior structure, as revealed by dark-field illumination, is an almost 
homogeneous, less refractive substance, but there are present minute highly 
refractive granules more or less symmetrically arranged. There is no definite 
cross-bar or chambered structure. On the other hand, when vital staining with 
brilliant cresyl blue is applied, there appear numerous paired masses of 
lavender hue at fairly regular intervals, suggesting the cross-bar aspect of a 
stained specimen. In a few specimens there was seen a dim outline of cross-bar 
effect. Neutral red, Bismarck brown, and crystal violet all bring out deeply 
stained granules and reticular structure but no definite cross-bars. The crista 
is a fibrillar structure, connected with the body at its inner edge. The outer 
margin is a thickened bundle of fibrils running an undulating course along the 
entire length of the crista. The crista is elastic and when detached from 
degenerated organisms assumes a rather regularly wound spiral, consisting of 
longitudinal bundles of fibrils (Figs. 36 to 38). A fragment of two or three 
waves may be encountered in a preparation containing many degenerated organisms 
(Fig. 39). The composition of the crista can best be studied in degenerated 
remains of the organism. During the life of Cristispira it is stretched or 
relaxed according to the contraction or extension of the body. The elasticity of 
the crista appears to furnish the organism with a propelling and rotating power 
upon its extension after being drawn tightly to the body by some contractile 
apparatus (myoneme) present somewhere within the cell body. The crista serves as 
a rudder and propeller for the swimming organism. It is interesting to compare 
here the elastic and regularly waved flagella of certain bacteria and 
spirochetes; it is possible that the crista of Cristispira is a highly modified 
form of flagella. The nature of the substance which stains dark blue with 
Giemsa's stain is not known, but it does not give a chromatin reaction. By 
Heidenhain's iron-hematoxylin method it takes a dark grayish tint, similar to 
the cell wall or crista, which are also dark gray. This substance was regarded 
by Gross and Zuelzer as volutin, which is of nutritive origin. It is probable 
that there are also embedded within it minute chromidial elements. 
Multiplication is by transverse fission. Cristispira balbianii is parasitic and 
does not survive more than a few days in ordinary sea water emulsion, even at 
its optimum temperature. In its natural habitat, or the crystalline style, it is 
usually pure, but is sometimes found in association with a tiny spiral organism 
(Spirillum ostreae). The cristispiras in the styles seem to diminish rapidly 
when oysters are collected from their beds and transferred elsewhere; oysters 
kept in tanks or cars for several days do not contain the cristispiras, and in 
opened oysters the styles disappear promptly at room temperature. All efforts to 
cultivate this organism have failed.

DOI: 10.1084/jem.34.3.295
PMCID: PMC2128086
PMID: 19868559


811. J Exp Med. 1928 Mar 31;47(4):539-59. doi: 10.1084/jem.47.4.539.

CALCIUM AND INORGANIC PHOSPHORUS IN THE BLOOD OF RABBITS : I. RESULTS OF 
REPEATED AND PROLONGED OBSERVATIONS ON NORMAL RABBITS.

Brown WH(1); Collaboration of Marion Howard.

Author information:
(1)Laboratories of The Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research.

It will be seen at once that the mean values obtained for calcium are higher 
than most of those recorded in the literature, and that the values for inorganic 
phosphorus are perhaps lower. It is well to bear in mind, however, that the 
significance that may be attached to any series of determinations of calcium and 
inorganic phosphorus in the blood of animals depends largely upon the conditions 
under which the determinations are made. As is well known, there are many 
factors that may affect the values obtained, including inherent differences in 
the animal material and the method of analysis used as well as the particular 
procedure employed in carrying out a given method. When all other conditions are 
uniform, irregularities in the handling of the blood after it is drawn will give 
rise to surprisingly large differences in the results for both calcium and 
inorganic phosphorus, as permitting blood to stand tends to decrease calcium 
values and to increase those for inorganic phosphorus. It seems desirable, 
therefore, to emphasize the fact that the results recorded above are to be 
viewed as results obtained under certain definitely prescribed conditions which 
differ in several important respects from those governing determinations made by 
other workers in this field. Moreover, it is to be noted that the conditions 
varied to some extent with each of the 4 groups of animals comprising this 
series. For example, there was a small but definite age difference. The animals 
of Groups I and II were older and more mature than those of Groups III and IV at 
the beginning of the experiments, and this initial difference was increased by 
the extension of the experiments on Groups I and II over a longer period of 
time, so that the observations made on these animals not only included data for 
a more advanced age, but represented a mean age considerably above that of the 
observations made on the animals of Groups III and IV. There was a similar 
difference of experimental conditions between Groups III and IV, while the 
observations on Group II differed from those on Group I in that no blood 
analyses were made on the animals of Group II for 2 months after they were 
placed under observation. These particular features of the experiments are 
mentioned because an examination of the text-figures will show that a line of 
cleavage between Groups I and II on the one hand, and III and IV on the other, 
is traceable through all of the distribution curves and to some extent in the 
tabulated results. With the combined values as the axis of distribution, Groups 
I and II invariably hang together, or swing to one side, while Groups III and IV 
swing to the other. Moreover, the extreme positions are usually represented by 
Groups II and IV. Whether these peculiarities of the results are in reality 
attributable to the conditions mentioned or to some other cause, such as the 
length of cage life (2), or the particular period covered by the observations, 
the suggested relation is sufficient to indicate the extent to which even slight 
differences in experimental conditions may affect the results obtained for blood 
calcium and inorganic phosphorus. The values obtained for calcium may be 
regarded as showing a fairly close agreement (Tables I and II and Text-fig. 1). 
The extreme difference between the means for the 4 groups of animals is only 0.5 
mg. or approximately 3.00 per cent of the mean for the combined groups. Still, 
the small absolute difference between the means for Groups I and IV is nearly 6 
times its probable error and, hence, cannot be disregarded. The most important 
feature of these results is, however, the range of normal variation. The 
distribution curves (Text-fig. 1) show a remarkably close agreement in the 
frequency with which values of a given magnitude occurred and an unusually 
symmetrical distribution of all values. The coefficients of variation are 
comparatively small (7.09 to 8.9 per cent), but values anywhere between 14.0 and 
16.0 mg. of calcium per 100 cc. of serum occurred with great frequency, while 
figures as low as 13.5 or as high as 17.5 mg. (Table II) were by no means rare; 
and the extreme limits of observation indicate a potential difference in the 
calcium content of the blood of normal rabbits of as much as 100 per cent. 
Inorganic phosphorus was found to be subject to much wider variation than 
calcium (Tables III and IV and Text-fig. 2). The coefficient of variation is 
approximately twice that for calcium (17.29 and 8.01 respectively), while the 
group means for phosphorus show a difference of 0.85 mg. per 100 cc. of serum. 
This difference is small in absolute value, but is nearly 20.0 per cent of the 
mean for all groups and is 15 times its probable error. It is safe to assume, 
therefore, that the values obtained indicate an actual difference in the 
inorganic phosphorus in the blood of the several groups of animals. This 
conclusion is borne out by the distribution frequencies (Table IV and Text-fig. 
2) which show that the values obtained for Groups I and II lie at a distinctly 
lower level than those for Groups III and IV; the difference between modal 
classes is, in fact, of the same order as that shown by the means. The limits of 
probable variation as determined by the standard deviation of the combined 
results are 3.73 and 5.29 mg. per 100 cc. of serum, but one-third of all values 
lie outside of these limits, while the extreme limits of normal are sufficiently 
wide to include values that may differ by as much as 200.0 or even 300.0 per 
cent. From the values obtained for calcium and inorganic phosphorus, the 
relation existing between the two substances may be measured in a number of 
ways. The ratio of the calcium to the phosphorus and the product of the amounts 
of the two substances have received the greatest attention. In addition to these 
values, we have computed values for the sum and for the ratio of the product to 
the sum, and also for the sum of the calcium-phophorus ratio and the product-sum 
ratio. The value for the sum of the calcium and inorganic phosphorus in the 
serum is determined largely by the calcium, but as it is also affected by the 
phosphorus, one might expect that the constancy of the value as compared with 
that of calcium would be diminished unless the variations in the two substances 
were so related as to neutralize each other. As is well known, there is an 
apparent tendency in this direction and in these experiments it was found that 
on the whole the values for the sum showed less variation (coefficients 6.42 and 
8.01 per cent) and were more uniformly distributed than those for calcium 
(Tables V and VI and Text-fig. 3). It is true that differences between groups 
were distinctly greater than in the case of calcium, but the agreement is 
sufficiently close to give evidence of a tendency to the maintenance of an 
inverse relation between serum calcium and inorganic phosphorus. Values for the 
product of calcium and inorganic phosphorus emphasize the phosphorus factor 
rather than the calcium, reversing the conditions that obtain in the case of the 
sum. A consideration of the product values given in Tables VII and VIII and 
Text-fig. 4 show that, while the order of variation is essentially the same as 
that of inorganic phosphorus (coefficients 17.09 and 17.29 per cent 
respectively), the distribution of values is more uniform. This may be 
attributable to the occurrence of coordinate variations in calcium and inorganic 
phosphorus. The situation presented by the values obtained for the ratio of 
calcium to inorganic phosphorus is somewhat surprising in that the ratio between 
the two substances proves to be less constant than the absolute amounts of 
either substance (Tables IX and X and Text-fig. 5). There are considerable 
differences between the standard values for individual groups of animals, and 
the distribution frequencies are inclined to be irregular. Moreover, all groups 
show a large standard deviation and correspondingly high coefficients of 
variation, but combining the results for the 4 groups of animals gives a fairly 
uniform and symmetrical distribution, a striking feature of which is the high 
frequency with which values occur over the entire range of standard variation, 
that is, from ratios of 2.85 to 4.29. It thus appears that, despite the evidence 
of a tendency to the observance of an inverse relation between the calcium and 
inorganic phosphorus in the blood, the ratio of one substance to the other is by 
no means constant. By using the product and the sum as a basis of expressing the 
relation between calcium and inorganic phosphorus, the form of the relation is 
???

DOI: 10.1084/jem.47.4.539
PMCID: PMC2131397
PMID: 19869430


812. Scand J Immunol. 2009 Nov;70(5):481-9. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-3083.2009.02322.x.

Immune responses in patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma treated with 
dendritic cells pulsed with tumor lysate.

Soleimani A(1), Berntsen A, Svane IM, Pedersen AE.

Author information:
(1)Department of International Health, Immunology and Microbiology, The Panum 
Institute, University of Copenhagen, Denmark.

Patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma (mRCC) have a limited life 
expectancy but still a subset of these patients develop immune and clinical 
responses after immunotherapy including dendritic cell (DC) vaccination. In a 
recently published phase I/II trials, fourteen HLA-A2 negative patients with 
progressive mRCC were vaccinated with autologous DC pulsed with allogeneic 
tumour lysate. Low-dose IL-2 administered subcutaneously was given 
concomitantly. In this study, we analysed lysate specific proliferation of PBMCs 
from these patients together with the TH1/TH2 balance of the responding T cells. 
Also, serum concentrations of IL-10, IL-12, IL-15, IL-17 and IL-18 from these 
patients and additional thirteen HLA-A2 positive mRCC patients treated with 
autologous DC pulsed with survivin and telomerase peptides were analysed during 
vaccination to identify systemic immune responses and potential response 
biomarkers. In HLA-A2 negative mRCC patients a spontaneous predominance of TH1 
secreting tumour lysate specific T cells was observed prior to vaccination in 
patients attaining stable disease (SD) during treatment whereas patients with 
continued progressive disease (PD) had a mixed TH1/TH2 response. The TH1/TH2 
balance was unchanged during vaccination also when tumour lysate specific T cell 
responses increased. An increase in IL-12, IL-17 and IL-18 serum concentrations 
was observed during vaccination but no difference between patients with SD and 
PD was observed. IL-10 or IL-15 was not measurable in serum.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-3083.2009.02322.x
PMID: 19874553 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


813. J Environ Radioact. 2010 Feb;101(2):95-105. doi:
10.1016/j.jenvrad.2009.09.002.  Epub 2009 Oct 28.

Contributing to shipping container security: can passive sensors bring a 
solution?

Janssens-Maenhout G(1), De Roo F, Janssens W.

Author information:
(1)Joint Research Centre Ispra, IES-CCU, Via Fermi 2749, TP. 290, I-21027 Ispra, 
Italy. greet.maenhout@jrc.it

Illicit trafficking of fissionable material in container cargoes is recognized 
as a potential weakness in Nuclear Security. Triggered by the attacks of 11 
September 2001, measures were undertaken to enhance maritime security in 
extension to the Safety Of Life At Sea Convention and in line with the US 
Container Security Initiatives. Effective detection techniques are needed that 
allow the inspector to intercept illicit trafficking of nuclear weapons 
components or components of other nuclear explosive devices. Many security 
measures focus on active interrogation of the container content by X-ray scan, 
which might be extended with the newly developed tagged neutron inspection 
system. Both active interrogation techniques can, with the current huge volume 
of container traffic, only be applied to a limited number of selected 
containers. The question arises whether a passive detection technique can offer 
an alternative solution. This study investigates if containers equipped with a 
small passive detector will register during transport the neutron irradiation by 
fissionable material such as plutonium in a measurable way. In practice, 4/5 of 
the containers are about 1/8 filled with hydrogenous material and undergo a 
typical 2 months route. For this reference case, it was found that the most 
compatible passive detector would be an activation foil of iridium. Monte-Carlo 
simulations showed that for the reference case the activity of a 250 microm thin 
foil with 6 cm(2) cross-section would register 1.2 Bq when it is irradiated by a 
significant quantity of Reactor-Grade PuO(2). However this activity drops with 
almost two orders of magnitude for other fillings and other isotopic 
compositions and forms of the Pu-source. The procedure of selecting the target 
material for Pu detection is detailed with the theoretical methods, in order to 
be useful for other applications. Moreover the value of such additional passive 
sensors for securing maritime container transport is situated within the global 
framework of the First, Second and Third Line of Defense against illicit 
trafficking.

Copyright 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jenvrad.2009.09.002
PMID: 19875213 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


814. Arch Bronconeumol. 2009 Dec;45(12):597-602. doi:
10.1016/j.arbres.2009.09.007.  Epub 2009 Oct 28.

[Inflammation markers in the exhaled air of patients with bronchiectasis 
unassociated with cystic fibrosis].

[Article in Spanish]

Palop-Cervera M(1), de Diego Damiá A, Martínez-Moragón E, Cortijo J, Fullana J, 
León M.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Neumología, Hospital Universitario La Fe, Valencia, España.

INTRODUCTION: The aim of the study was to analyse the relationship between the 
intensity of the respiratory tract inflammation, expressed by oxidative stress 
markers, and the severity of the disease in patients with bronchiectasis 
unassociated with cystic fibrosis.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The study included 25 patients with stable bronchiectasis 
(15 females and 10 males). As determining factors of severity, the following 
parameters were collected: degree of dyspnoea, number of 
exacerbations/admissions in the last year, mean daily sputum volume, sputum 
colour (graduated colour scale), bacterial colonisation, respiratory function 
tests, quality of life (St. George questionnaire) and radiological extension of 
the lesions (Bhalla scale). Inflammation was analysed using the measurement of 
nitric oxide, pH and concentration of nitrites, nitrates and isoprostane in the 
exhaled air condensate. The C reactive protein and erythrocyte sedimentation 
rate were also determined in peripheral blood.
RESULTS: There were no significant relationships between the markers in the 
exhaled air condensate and the clinical, radiological and functional involvement 
or the quality of life of the patients. Only bacterial colonisation (16 cases) 
was associated with higher values of nitrates in exhaled air (mean+/-standard 
deviation: 18+/-4 compared to 7+/-2microM; r(2)=0.6) and a higher number of 
exacerbations (3.1+/-1.9 compared to 1.7+/-1.9; r(2)=0.3).
CONCLUSIONS: In our study, the measurement of inflammation markers in exhaled 
air is only associated with some parameters of severity in patients with 
bacterial bronchiectasis.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arbres.2009.09.007
PMID: 19875219 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


815. Clin Neurol Neurosurg. 2010 Jan;112(1):40-6. doi: 
10.1016/j.clineuro.2009.10.003. Epub 2009 Oct 29.

Surgical treatment and outcome of skull base meningiomas with extracranial 
extensions.

Nakao N(1), Ohkawa T, Miki J, Ogura M, Itakura T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurological Surgery, Wakayama Medical University, 811-1 
Kimiidera, Wakayama 641-0012, Japan. nnakao@wakayama-med.ac.jp

OBJECTIVE: Recurrent cranial base meningiomas occasionally extend into 
craniofacial structures, and are one of the most difficult tumors to surgically 
manage. We reviewed our experience of surgical treatment in a series of patients 
with meningiomas showing extensive extracranial extensions.
METHODS: We surgically treated a total of 10 patients with recurrent cranial 
base meningiomas with large extension to multiple craniofacial structures. All 
patients underwent orbitozygomatic or zygomatic frontotemporal craniotomy for 
surgical resection of the tumor. An endoscopic endonasal technique was also 
employed, if necessary, as an adjunct to the transcranial approach.
RESULTS: Eight patients were treated solely with a frontotemporal approach 
associated with an extended resection of the floor of the middle fossa. In 2 
patients, an endoscopic endonasal approach was additionally required for 
resection of tumors located in the nasal cavity and ethmoid sinus. A gross total 
resection was achieved without serious surgical complications in 9 out of the 10 
patients. In all patients, the tumors were found to invade the surrounding 
tissue such as the bone and skeletal muscle to varying degrees.
CONCLUSION: Our data indicate that recurrent craniofacial meningiomas can 
usually be managed by using a lateral cranial base approach. Whereas it would be 
expected that a radical resection may prevent further recurrence with an 
acceptable quality of life, a long-term follow-up would be required for 
confirming the benefit of this treatment strategy.

2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clineuro.2009.10.003
PMID: 19875228 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


816. Bull World Health Organ. 2009 Oct;87(10):763-71. doi: 10.2471/blt.08.058370.

Meeting oxygen needs in Africa: an options analysis from the Gambia.

Howie SR(1), Hill S, Ebonyi A, Krishnan G, Njie O, Sanneh M, Jallow M, Stevens 
W, Taylor K, Weber MW, Njai PC, Tapgun M, Corrah T, Mulholland K, Peel D, Njie 
M, Hill PC, Adegbola RA.

Author information:
(1)Bacterial Diseases Programme, Medical Research Council Laboratories, Banjul, 
Gambia. showie@mrc.gm

OBJECTIVE: To compare oxygen supply options for health facilities in the Gambia 
and develop a decision-making algorithm for choosing oxygen delivery systems in 
Africa and the rest of the developing world.
METHODS: Oxygen cylinders and concentrators were compared in terms of 
functionality and cost. Interviews with key informants using locally developed 
and adapted WHO instruments, operational assessments, cost-modelling and cost 
measurements were undertaken to determine whether oxygen cylinders or 
concentrators were the better choice. An algorithm and a software tool to guide 
the choice of oxygen delivery system were constructed.
FINDINGS: In the Gambia, oxygen concentrators have significant advantages 
compared to cylinders where power is reliable; in other settings, cylinders are 
preferable as long as transporting them is feasible. Cylinder costs are greatly 
influenced by leakage, which is common, whereas concentrator costs are affected 
by the cost of power far more than by capital costs. Only two of 12 facilities 
in the Gambia were found suitable for concentrators; at the remaining 10 
facilities, cylinders were the better option.
CONCLUSION: Neither concentrators nor cylinders are well suited to every 
situation, but a simple options assessment can determine which is better in each 
setting. Nationally this would result in improved supply and lower costs by 
comparison with conventional cylinders alone, although ensuring a reliable 
supply would remain a challenge. The decision algorithm and software tool 
designed for the Gambia could be applied in other developing countries.

OBJECTIF: Comparer les options d’approvisionnement en oxygène qui s’offrent aux 
établissements de soins de Gambie et développer un algorithme de prise de 
décisions pour guider le choix des systèmes d’approvisionnement en oxygène en 
Afrique et dans le reste du monde en développement.
MÉTHODES: Les auteurs ont comparé en termes de fonctionnalité et de coût les 
bouteilles et les concentrateurs d’oxygène. Ils ont interrogé des informateurs 
clés en utilisant des instruments d’évaluation OMS mis au point et adaptés 
localement et réalisé des évaluations opérationnelles, ainsi qu’une modélisation 
et des mesures des coûts pour déterminer le meilleur choix entre les bouteilles 
et les concentrateurs d’oxygène. Ils ont élaboré un algorithme et un outil 
logiciel pour guider la sélection du système d’approvisionnement en oxygène.
RÉSULTATS: En Gambie, les concentrateurs d’oxygène présentent des avantages 
notables par rapport aux bouteilles lorsque l’alimentation électrique est 
fiable ; dans d’autres contextes, il est préférable de faire appel aux 
bouteilles dans la mesure où leur transport est praticable. La présence de 
fuites, phénomène courant, influe fortement sur le coût des bouteilles, tandis 
que pour les concentrateurs, les coûts énergétiques sont de loin plus importants 
que les coûts en capital. Sur les 12 établissements gambiens, 2 seulement 
avaient intérêt d’après l’étude à utiliser des concentrateurs ; pour les 10 
autres, les bouteilles constituaient une meilleure option.
CONCLUSION: Ni les concentrateurs, ni les bouteilles ne conviennent à toutes les 
situations, mais une évaluation simple des options permet de déterminer pour 
chaque contexte la meilleure solution. A l’échelle nationale, cette évaluation 
devrait conduire à une amélioration de l’approvisionnement et à une baisse des 
coûts par rapport à la situation où l’on utilise uniquement des bouteilles 
d’oxygène classiques, mais assurer un approvisionnement fiable devrait rester un 
défi. L’algorithme décisionnel et l’outil logiciel conçus pour la Gambie 
devraient être applicables dans d’autres pays en développement.

OBJETIVO: Comparar las opciones de suministro de oxígeno para centros de salud 
en Gambia y desarrollar un algoritmo decisional para elegir los sistemas de 
suministro de oxígeno en África y en el resto del mundo en desarrollo.
MÉTODOS: Se compararon la funcionalidad y el costo de las bombonas y los 
concentradores de oxígeno. Se llevaron a cabo entrevistas con informantes clave 
mediante instrumentos desarrollados localmente o adaptados a partir de otros de 
la OMS, evaluaciones operacionales, modelizaciones de costos y mediciones de 
costos a fin de determinar la mejor opción entre las bombonas y los 
concentradores de oxígeno. Se desarrolló así un algoritmo y un instrumento de 
software para fundamentar la elección del sistema de suministro de oxígeno.
RESULTADOS: En Gambia, los concentradores de oxígeno presentan ventajas 
importantes en comparación con las bombonas allí donde el suministro eléctrico 
es fiable; en caso contrario, la opción preferible son las bombonas, siempre y 
cuando sea factible transportarlas. El costo de las bombonas depende 
considerablemente de las fugas, un problema frecuente, mientras que el de los 
concentradores depende mucho más del costo de la electricidad que de los gastos 
de infraestructura. Sólo dos de los 12 centros de Gambia analizados reunían las 
condiciones idóneas para usar concentradores; en los otros diez centros, la 
mejor opción eran las bombonas.
CONCLUSIÓN: Ni los concentradores ni las bombonas son soluciones ideales para 
cualquier situación, pero una simple evaluación de esas dos opciones permite 
determinar cuál es preferible en cada entorno. A nivel nacional, esa 
diferenciación se traduciría en mejoras del suministro y menores costos en 
comparación con el uso exclusivo de las bombonas convencionales, pero seguiría 
habiendo problemas para garantizar un suministro fiable. El algoritmo decisional 
y el instrumento de software concebidos para Gambia podrían aplicarse en otros 
países en desarrollo.

الهدف: مقارنة اختيارات إمداد المرافق الصحية بالأكسجين في غامبيا وإعداد خوارزمية 
لاتخاذ القرار حول اختيار نُظُم توصيل الأكسجين في أفريقيا وبقية البلدان النامية.
الطريقة: قارن الباحثون مواسير (اسطوانات) ومكثفات الأكسجين من حيث أدائها لوظائفها 
وتكاليفها، فأجروا مقابلات مع المخبرين الرئيسيين باستخدام استمارة أعدتها منظمة 
الصحة العالمية مع تكييفها لتلائم الموقع المحلي، مع إجراء تقييمات ميدانية وإعداد 
نماذج للتكاليف وقياسات للتكاليف للتعرف على ما إذا كانت مواسير (اسطوانات) أو كانت 
مكثفات الأكسجين هي اختيار أفضل. وبنى الباحثون خوارزمية وبرمجيات لتوجيه اختيار 
نظام توصيل الأكسجين.
الموجودات: في غامبيا تتمتع مكثفات الأكسجين بمنافع هامة مقارنة بالمواسير 
(الاسطوانات)، وذلك في المواقع التي يمكن الاعتماد فيها على توافر الطاقة، أما في 
المواقع الأخرى، فتفضل المواسير (الاسطوانات) حينما يكون نقلها ممكناً. وتتأثر 
تكلفة المواسير (الاسطوانات) إلى حدٍ كبير بالتسرب، وهو أمر شائع الحدوث، فيما 
تتأثر تكلفة المكثفات بتكاليف الطاقة أكثر مما تتأثر بتكاليف رأس المال. وقد وجد 
الباحثون أن مرفق اثنين من أصل 12 مرفقاً في غامبيا ملائمان للمكثفات. أما المرافق 
العشرة المتبقية فإن المواسير (الاسطوانيات) هي اختيار أفضل .
الاستنتاج: لا تناسب المكثفات ولا المواسير (الاسطوانيات) جميع الأوضاع، ولكن 
تقييماً بسيطاً للاختيارات يمكن أن يحدد أيهما أفضل في كل موقع. وعلى الصعيد 
الوطني، سيؤدي ذلك إلى تحسين الإمداد وتخفيض التكاليف بالمقارنة مع الاستخدام 
المعتاد للمواسير (الاسطوانات) لوحدها، وذلك رغم أن ضمان الإمداد الموثوق سيبقى 
تحدياً. إن خوارزمية اتخاذ القرار والأداة البرمجية المصممة لغامبيا يمكن تطبيقها 
في بلدان نامية أخرى.

DOI: 10.2471/blt.08.058370
PMCID: PMC2755310
PMID: 19876543 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


817. Arthritis Rheum. 2009 Nov 15;61(11):1616-7; author reply 1617-8. doi: 
10.1002/art.24821.

The cost-utility analysis of the BeSt trial: is a camel in fact a horse with 
abnormalities in the distribution of dorsal fat? Comment on the article by van 
den Hout et al.

Boers M.

Comment on
    Arthritis Rheum. 2009 Mar 15;61(3):289-90.
    Arthritis Rheum. 2009 Mar 15;61(3):291-9.

DOI: 10.1002/art.24821
PMID: 19877096 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


818. Hepatology. 2010 Jan;51(1):165-73. doi: 10.1002/hep.23260.

Use of sorafenib in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma before liver 
transplantation: a cost-benefit analysis while awaiting data on sorafenib 
safety.

Vitale A(1), Volk ML, Pastorelli D, Lonardi S, Farinati F, Burra P, Angeli P, 
Cillo U.

Author information:
(1)Unità di Chirurgia Oncologica, Istituto Oncologico Veneto, IRCCS, Padova, 
Italy. alessandro.vitale@unipd.it

Comment in
    Hepatology. 2010 Jan;51(1):12-5.
    Hepatology. 2010 Jun;51(6):2232-3.
    Hepatology. 2010 Sep;52(3):1171-2.
    J Hepatol. 2012 Mar;56(3):723-5.

The role of bridging therapies for patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) 
on the waiting list for liver transplantation (LT) remains controversial. There 
is strong evidence to support the effectiveness of sorafenib in extending the 
time to progression of HCC. Using a Markov model, we compared two strategies: 
one using sorafenib as neoadjuvant therapy before LT (Strategy A), and the other 
using no bridging therapy in the first 6 months (Strategy B). Reference case: T2 
HCC patient with compensated cirrhosis. The benefit of sorafenib in delaying 
time to HCC progression was expressed as the hazard ratio (HR) and taken from 
recently published randomized trials. The endpoints considered were: survival 
benefit measured in quality-adjusted life days (QALDs), transplant probability, 
costs (C) in euro, willingness to pay (WTP), and net health benefit (NHB), where 
NHB = survival benefit - C/WTP. The calculated WTP of sorafenib in Italy was 346 
euro per QALD. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis showed a median survival 
benefit of 94 QALDs (10% percentile = 38, 90% percentile = 210). In the 
base-case scenario (HR = 0.47, monthly dropout probability = 5%, median time to 
LT = 3 months), the gain in LT probability due to sorafenib was 5% and it 
increased proportionally with increasing median times to LT and decreasing HR. 
In the cost-benefit analysis, the incremental NHB of Strategy A versus Strategy 
B was 37 QALDs; it increased as sorafenib HR decreased and when median times to 
LT were shorter than 6 months, whereas for longer times it gradually dropped, 
particularly when Strategy B included effective locoregional treatments.
CONCLUSION: Sorafenib neoadjuvant therapy is cost-effective by comparison with 
no therapy for T2-HCC patients waiting for LT, particularly for median times to 
LT under 6 months.

DOI: 10.1002/hep.23260
PMID: 19877181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


819. Acta Ophthalmol. 2010 Jun;88(4):463-71. doi:
10.1111/j.1755-3768.2009.01566.x.  Epub 2009 Oct 23.

Prevalence of major eye diseases and causes of visual impairment in the adult 
Finnish population: a nationwide population-based survey.

Laitinen A(1), Laatikainen L, Härkänen T, Koskinen S, Reunanen A, Aromaa A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health and Functional Capacity, National Public Health 
Institute, Helsinki, Finland. arja.laitinen@thl.fi

PURPOSE: To estimate the prevalence of cataract, glaucoma, age-related 
maculopathy (ARM) and diabetic retinopathy (DR) in the adult Finnish population.
METHODS: A representative cross-sectional sample of the Finnish population aged 
30 years and older. Of the 7979 eligible people, 7413 (93%) were interviewed 
and/or examined. The interview included self-reported doctor-made diagnoses of 
cataract, glaucoma, degenerative fundus changes (mainly ARM) or DR. Information 
on self-reported eye diseases was complemented with data from national 
registers, and case records were gathered for non-participants and persons with 
visual acuity (VA) < 0.5 or reporting difficulties in vision or eye diseases 
without assessed VA.
RESULTS: Based on self-reported and/or register-based data the estimated total 
prevalences of cataract, glaucoma, ARM and DR in the study population were 10%, 
5%, 4% and 1%, respectively. All these chronic eye diseases increased with age 
(p < 0.001). The corresponding prevalences for persons aged 65 and older were 
34%, 13%, 12% and 2%, respectively. Cataract and glaucoma were more common in 
women than in men [odds ratio (OR) 1.55, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.26-1.91; 
OR 1.57, 95% CI 1.24-1.98, respectively]. The most prevalent eye diseases in 
people with visual impairment (VA < or = 0.25) were ARM (37%), unoperated 
cataract (27%), glaucoma (22%) and DR (7%).
CONCLUSION: The high prevalence of these mainly age-related eye diseases, 
together with increasing life expectancy, mean that continuous efforts are 
needed to identify and treat eye diseases in order to maintain patients' quality 
of life and to alleviate the social and economic burden of serious eye diseases.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1755-3768.2009.01566.x
PMID: 19878108 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


820. Aging Cell. 2010 Feb;9(1):92-5. doi: 10.1111/j.1474-9726.2009.00533.x. Epub
2009  Oct 30.

Genetic variation in the murine lifespan response to dietary restriction: from 
life extension to life shortening.

Liao CY(1), Rikke BA, Johnson TE, Diaz V, Nelson JF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, University of Texas Health Science Center at San 
Antonio, San Antonio, TX 78229, USA.

Comment in
    Aging Cell. 2010 Jun;9(3):448-9; discussion 450-2.

Chronic dietary restriction (DR) is considered among the most robust 
life-extending interventions, but several reports indicate that DR does not 
always extend and may even shorten lifespan in some genotypes. An unbiased 
genetic screen of the lifespan response to DR has been lacking. Here, we 
measured the effect of one commonly used level of DR (40% reduction in food 
intake) on mean lifespan of virgin males and females in 41 recombinant inbred 
strains of mice. Mean strain-specific lifespan varied two to threefold under ad 
libitum (AL) feeding and 6- to 10-fold under DR, in males and females 
respectively. Notably, DR shortened lifespan in more strains than those in which 
it lengthened life. Food intake and female fertility varied markedly among 
strains under AL feeding, but neither predicted DR survival: therefore, strains 
in which DR shortened lifespan did not have low food intake or poor reproductive 
potential. Finally, strain-specific lifespans under DR and AL feeding were not 
correlated, indicating that the genetic determinants of lifespan under these two 
conditions differ. These results demonstrate that the lifespan response to a 
single level of DR exhibits wide variation amenable to genetic analysis. They 
also show that DR can shorten lifespan in inbred mice. Although strains with 
shortened lifespan under 40% DR may not respond negatively under less stringent 
DR, the results raise the possibility that life extension by DR may not be 
universal.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1474-9726.2009.00533.x
PMCID: PMC3476836
PMID: 19878144 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


821. Mol Microbiol. 2009 Nov;74(4):990-1003. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2958.2009.06912.x.  Epub 2009 Oct 29.

A cryptochrome-like protein is involved in the regulation of photosynthesis 
genes in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.

Hendrischk AK(1), Frühwirth SW, Moldt J, Pokorny R, Metz S, Kaiser G, Jäger A, 
Batschauer A, Klug G.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Mikrobiologie und Molekularbiologie, Justus-Liebig-Universität 
Giessen, Heinrich-Buff-Ring 26-32, D-35392 Giessen, Germany.

Blue light receptors belonging to the cryptochrome/photolyase family are found 
in all kingdoms of life. The functions of photolyases in repair of UV-damaged 
DNA as well as of cryptochromes in the light-dependent regulation of 
photomorphogenetic processes and in the circadian clock in plants and animals 
are well analysed. In prokaryotes, the only role of members of this protein 
family that could be demonstrated is DNA repair. Recently, we identified a gene 
for a cryptochrome-like protein (CryB) in the alpha-proteobacterium Rhodobacter 
sphaeroides. The protein lacks the typical C-terminal extension of 
cryptochromes, and is not related to the Cry DASH family. Here we demonstrate 
that CryB binds flavin adenine dinucleotide that can be photoreduced by blue 
light. CryB binds single-stranded DNA with very high affinity (K(d) 
approximately 10(-8) M) but double-stranded DNA and single-stranded RNA with far 
lower affinity (K(d) approximately 10(-6) M). Despite of that, no in vitro 
repair activity for pyrimidine dimers in single-stranded DNA could be detected. 
However, we show that CryB clearly affects the expression of genes for 
pigment-binding proteins and consequently the amount of photosynthetic complexes 
in R. sphaeroides. Thus, for the first time a role of a bacterial cryptochrome 
in gene regulation together with a biological function is demonstrated.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2958.2009.06912.x
PMID: 19878455 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


822. Value Health. 2010 Mar-Apr;13(2):222-9. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00669.x.  Epub 2009 Oct 29.

The impact of differences in EQ-5D and SF-6D utility scores on the acceptability 
of cost-utility ratios: results across five trial-based cost-utility studies.

Joore M(1), Brunenberg D, Nelemans P, Wouters E, Kuijpers P, Honig A, Willems D, 
de Leeuw P, Severens J, Boonen A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Medical Technology Assessment, 
Maastricht University Medical Centre, Maastricht, The Netherlands. 
m.joore@mumc.nl

Comment in
    Value Health. 2010 Mar-Apr;13(2):159.

OBJECTIVE: This article investigates whether differences in utility scores based 
on the EQ-5D and the SF-6D have impact on the incremental cost-utility ratios in 
five distinct patient groups.
METHODS: We used five empirical data sets of trial-based cost-utility studies 
that included patients with different disease conditions and severity 
(musculoskeletal disease, cardiovascular pulmonary disease, and psychological 
disorders) to calculate differences in quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) based 
on EQ-5D and SF-6D utility scores. We compared incremental QALYs, incremental 
cost-utility ratios, and the probability that the incremental cost-utility ratio 
was acceptable within and across the data sets.
RESULTS: We observed small differences in incremental QALYs, but large 
differences in the incremental cost-utility ratios and in the probability that 
these ratios were acceptable at a given threshold, in the majority of the 
presented cost-utility analyses. More specifically, in the patient groups with 
relatively mild health conditions the probability of acceptance of the 
incremental cost-utility ratio was considerably larger when using the EQ-5D to 
estimate utility. While in the patient groups with worse health conditions the 
probability of acceptance of the incremental cost-utility ratio was considerably 
larger when using the SF-6D to estimate utility.
CONCLUSIONS: Much of the appeal in using QALYs as measure of effectiveness in 
economic evaluations is in the comparability across conditions and 
interventions. The incomparability of the results of cost-utility analyses using 
different instruments to estimate a single index value for health severely 
undermines this aspect and reduces the credibility of the use of incremental 
cost-utility ratios for decision-making.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00669.x
PMID: 19878492 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


823. Value Health. 2010 Mar-Apr;13(2):196-208. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00668.x.  Epub 2009 Oct 29.

Cost-effectiveness of screening and optimal management for diabetes, 
hypertension, and chronic kidney disease: a modeled analysis.

Howard K(1), White S, Salkeld G, McDonald S, Craig JC, Chadban S, Cass A.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, University of Sydney, and The Royal Prince Alfred 
Hospital, Sydney, NSW, Australia. kirstenh@health.usyd.edu.au

OBJECTIVES: Chronic kidney disease is, increasingly, both a contributor to 
premature deaths and a financial burden to the health system, and is estimated 
to affect between 10% and 15% of the adult population in Western countries. 
Hypertension and, in particular diabetes, are significant contributors to the 
global burden of chronic kidney disease. Although it might increase costs, 
screening for, and improved management of, persons at increased risk of 
progressive kidney disease could improve health outcomes. We therefore sought to 
estimate the costs and health outcomes of alternative strategies to prevent 
end-stage kidney disease, compared with usual care.
METHODS: A Markov model comparing: 1) intensive management versus usual care for 
patients with suboptimally managed diabetes and hypertension; and 2) screening 
for and intensive treatment of diabetes, hypertension, and proteinuria versus 
usual care was developed. Intervention effectiveness was based on published 
meta-analyses and randomized controlled trial data; costs were measured from a 
central health-care funder perspective in 2008 Australian dollars ($A), and 
outcomes were reported in quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs).
RESULTS: Intensive treatment of inadequately controlled diabetes was both less 
costly (an average lifetime saving of $A133) and more effective (with an 
additional 0.075 QALYs per patients) than conventional management. Intensive 
management of hypertension had an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) 
$A2588 per QALY gained. Treating all known diabetics with angiotensin-converting 
enzyme (ACE) inhibitors was both less costly (an average lifetime saving of 
$A825 per patient) and more effective than current treatment (resulting in 0.124 
additional QALYs per patient). Primary care screening for 50- to 69-year-olds 
