an average length of approximately 280 nucleotides were analyzed. We observe 
very similar results in all species; we find little evidence of adaptive amino 
acid substitution in any comparison except sunflowers. This may be because many 
plant species have modest effective population sizes.

DOI: 10.1093/molbev/msq079
PMCID: PMC2915642
PMID: 20299543 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


791. Am J Public Health. 2010 May;100(5):896-903. doi: 10.2105/AJPH.2009.160341.
Epub  2010 Mar 18.

Understanding the rapid increase in life expectancy in South Korea.

Yang S(1), Khang YH, Harper S, Davey Smith G, Leon DA, Lynch J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Biostatistics, and Occupational Health, McGill 
University, Montreal, Canada.

OBJECTIVES: We assessed life expectancy increases in the past several decades in 
South Korea by age and specific causes of death.
METHODS: We applied Arriaga's decomposition method to life table data 
(1970-2005) and mortality statistics (1983-2005) to estimate age- and 
cause-specific contributions to changes in life expectancy.
RESULTS: Reductions in infant mortality made the largest age-group contribution 
to the life expectancy increase. Reductions in cardiovascular diseases 
(particularly stroke and hypertensive diseases) contributed most to longer life 
expectancy between 1983 and 2005 (30% in males and 28% in females). Lower rates 
of stomach cancer, liver disease, tuberculosis, and external-cause mortality 
accounted for 30% of the male and 20% of the female increase in longevity. 
However, higher mortality from ischemic heart disease, lung and bronchial 
cancer, colorectal cancer, breast cancer, diabetes, and suicide offset gains by 
10% in both genders.
CONCLUSIONS: Rapid increases in life expectancy in South Korea were mostly 
achieved by reductions in infant mortality and in diseases related to infections 
and blood pressure.

DOI: 10.2105/AJPH.2009.160341
PMCID: PMC2853609
PMID: 20299661 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


792. J Med Invest. 2010 Feb;57(1-2):69-80. doi: 10.2152/jmi.57.69.

Determinants of life satisfaction among Japanese elderly women attending health 
care and welfare service facilities.

Onishi C(1), Yuasa K, Sei M, Ewis AA, Nakano T, Munakata H, Nakahori Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Genetics and Public Health, Institute of Health 
Biosciences, University of Tokushima Graduate School, Tokushima, Japan.

Prolonged life expectancy must be recognized as an excellent achievement of 
modern medicine, but not all the elderly people are satisfied with their lives. 
Life satisfaction is a multi-dimensional issue that depends on many objective 
and subjective characteristics. In this study, we aimed at investigating the 
factors affecting life satisfaction of 314 elderly Japanese women attending in 
28 elderly-care and welfare facilities at Tokushima Prefecture, Japan. Our 
results indicated that elderly subjects with depression tendencies always show 
significantly lower degrees of life satisfaction than others who are not 
depressed (p<0.001) regardless of their cognitive status. Furthermore, elderly 
women who shared decision for their living place and whose opinions were 
considered for daily life decisions reported significantly more life 
satisfaction levels than others. We conclude that elderly life satisfaction is 
affected by various determinants however, with different influencing weight. 
Life satisfaction of elderly people, with or without dementia, is greatly 
affected by their mood status and share in decision making. Avoiding elderly 
people depressive mood, sharing them in various daily decisions, considering 
their opinions, and allowing them to decide their elderly-care facility 
placement are crucial determinants for their life satisfaction and essential for 
their coping, adaptation, well-being and successful aging.

DOI: 10.2152/jmi.57.69
PMID: 20299745 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


793. Pediatr Cardiol. 2010 Jul;31(5):607-10. doi: 10.1007/s00246-010-9689-6. Epub
 2010 Mar 19.

Therapeutic strategies in children with an isolated unilaterally absent proximal 
pulmonary artery.

Krammoh EK(1), Bigras JL, Prsa M, Lapierre C, Miró J, Dahdah NS.

Author information:
(1)Cardiology Division, Department of Pediatrics, CHU Sainte-Justine, Université 
de Montréal, Montréal, QC, H3T 1C5, Canada.

Therapeutic strategies for isolated unilateral absence of a proximal pulmonary 
artery remain unclear. The natural history of the disease, or thrombosis of 
primary surgical anastomosis, leads to exclusion of the affected lung with 
increased risk of intrapulmonary bleeding, impaired quality of life, and 
shortened life expectancy. We herein describe our two-stage approach in a small 
series of patients starting with interventional catheterization followed by 
surgical anastomosis. Other medical interventions, such as anticoagulation and 
pulmonary vasodilatation, are key factors to successfully restore pulmonary 
circulation in this rare defect.

DOI: 10.1007/s00246-010-9689-6
PMID: 20300746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


794. CHD7 Disorder.

van Ravenswaaij-Arts CM(1), Hefner M(2), Blake K(3), Martin DM(4).

In: Adam MP, Feldman J, Mirzaa GM, Pagon RA, Wallace SE, Bean LJH, Gripp KW, 
Amemiya A, editors. GeneReviews(®) [Internet]. Seattle (WA): University of 
Washington, Seattle; 1993–2023.
2006 Oct 2 [updated 2022 Sep 29].

Author information:
(1)University Medical Center Groningen, Groningen, the Netherlands
(2)Saint Louis University, St Louis, Missouri
(3)Dalhousie University, Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada
(4)University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan

CLINICAL CHARACTERISTICS: CHD7 disorder encompasses the entire phenotypic 
spectrum of heterozygous CHD7 pathogenic variants that includes CHARGE syndrome 
as well as subsets of features that comprise the CHARGE syndrome phenotype. The 
mnemonic CHARGE syndrome, introduced in the premolecular era, stands for 
coloboma, heart defect, choanal atresia, retarded growth and development, 
genital hypoplasia, ear anomalies (including deafness). Following the 
identification of the genetic cause of CHD7 disorder, the phenotypic spectrum 
expanded to include cranial nerve anomalies, vestibular defects, cleft lip 
and/or palate, hypothyroidism, tracheoesophageal anomalies, brain anomalies, 
seizures, and renal anomalies. Life expectancy highly depends on the severity of 
manifestations; mortality can be high in the first few years when severe birth 
defects (particularly complex heart defects) are present and often complicated 
by airway and feeding issues. In childhood, adolescence, and adulthood, 
decreased life expectancy is likely related to a combination of residual heart 
defects, infections, aspiration or choking, respiratory issues including 
obstructive and central apnea, and possibly seizures. Despite these 
complications, the life expectancy for many individuals can be normal.
DIAGNOSIS/TESTING: The diagnosis of CHD7 disorder is established in a proband 
with suggestive clinical and imaging findings and a heterozygous pathogenic 
variant in or deletion of CHD7 identified by molecular genetic testing.
MANAGEMENT: Treatment of manifestations: Management of the manifestations of 
CHD7 disorder can be complex and require a multidisciplinary approach involving 
clinicians, therapists, and educators. Surveillance: Requires routine follow up 
of manifestations identified in infancy/childhood, as well as ongoing monitoring 
of growth, development, educational progress, behavior, and possible endocrine 
issues. Agents/circumstances to avoid: Because of the increased risk of 
post-anesthesia airway complications, procedures requiring anesthesia should be 
minimized and combined whenever possible.
GENETIC COUNSELING: CHD7 disorder is an autosomal dominant disorder typically 
caused by a de novo pathogenic variant. In rare instances, an individual with 
CHD7 disorder inherits a pathogenic variant from a heterozygous parent. The risk 
to the sibs of the proband depends on the genetic status of the proband's 
parents: (1) If a parent of the proband has a CHD7 pathogenic variant, the risk 
to the sibs of inheriting the pathogenic variant is 50%; (2) If the CHD7 
pathogenic variant identified in the proband cannot be detected in the leukocyte 
DNA of either parent, the empiric recurrence risk to sibs of a proband is 
approximately 1%-2% because of the possibility of parental germline mosaicism. 
Although many individuals with CHD7 disorder are not able to reproduce, each 
child of an individual with CHD7 disorder has a 50% chance of inheriting the 
pathogenic variant. Once the CHD7 pathogenic variant has been identified in an 
affected family member, prenatal and preimplantation genetic testing are 
possible.

Copyright © 1993-2023, University of Washington, Seattle. GeneReviews is a 
registered trademark of the University of Washington, Seattle. All rights 
reserved.

PMID: 20301296


795. CLCN7-Related Osteopetrosis.

Sobacchi C(1), Villa A(1), Schulz A(2), Kornak U(3).

In: Adam MP, Feldman J, Mirzaa GM, Pagon RA, Wallace SE, Bean LJH, Gripp KW, 
Amemiya A, editors. GeneReviews(®) [Internet]. Seattle (WA): University of 
Washington, Seattle; 1993–2023.
2007 Feb 12 [updated 2022 Jan 20].

Author information:
(1)CNR-IRGB, Milan Unit Humanitas Clinical and Research Center Rozzano, Italy
(2)Universitätsklinik für Kinder- und Jugendmedizin Ulm, Germany
(3)Institut für Humangenetik Universitätsmedizin Göttingen, Germany

CLINICAL CHARACTERISTICS: The spectrum of CLCN7-related osteopetrosis includes 
infantile malignant CLCN7-related autosomal recessive osteopetrosis (ARO), 
intermediate autosomal osteopetrosis (IAO), and autosomal dominant osteopetrosis 
type II (ADOII; Albers-Schönberg disease). ARO. Onset is at birth. Findings may 
include: fractures; reduced growth; sclerosis of the skull base (with or without 
choanal stenosis or hydrocephalus) resulting in optic nerve compression, facial 
palsy, and hearing loss; absence of the bone marrow cavity resulting in severe 
anemia and thrombocytopenia; dental abnormalities, odontomas, and risk for 
mandibular osteomyelitis; and hypocalcemia with tetanic seizures and secondary 
hyperparathyroidism. Without treatment maximal life span in ARO is ten years. 
IAO. Onset is in childhood. Findings may include: fractures after minor trauma, 
characteristic skeletal radiographic changes found incidentally, mild anemia, 
and occasional visual impairment secondary to optic nerve compression. Life 
expectancy in IAO is usually normal. ADOII. Onset is usually late childhood or 
adolescence. Findings may include: fractures (in any long bone and/or the 
posterior arch of a vertebra), scoliosis, hip osteoarthritis, and osteomyelitis 
of the mandible or septic osteitis or osteoarthritis elsewhere. Cranial nerve 
compression is rare.
DIAGNOSIS/TESTING: The diagnosis of a CLCN7-related osteopetrosis is established 
in a proband with suggestive findings and biallelic pathogenic variants or a 
heterozygous pathogenic variant in CLCN7 identified by molecular genetic 
testing.
MANAGEMENT: Treatment of manifestations: ARO. Calcium supplementation for 
hypocalcemic convulsions; management of calcium homeostasis per individual 
needs; erythrocyte or platelet transfusions as needed; antibiotics for 
leukocytopenia; immunoglobulins for hypogammaglobulinemia. Newly diagnosed 
individuals should be transferred as soon as possible to a pediatric center 
experienced in allogeneic stem cell transplantation in this disease. The 
collaboration of pediatricians, pediatric neurologists, ophthalmologists, and 
psychologists is required to determine best treatment of neurologic and 
ophthalmic issues, which may include surgical decompression of the optic nerve 
and hearing aids. Treatment of fractures by an experienced orthopedist and 
dental care with attention to tooth eruption, ankylosis, abscesses, cysts, and 
fistulas. ADOII. Orthopedic treatment for fractures and arthritis with attention 
to potential post-surgical complications (delayed union or non-union of 
fractures, infection); fractures near joints may require total joint 
arthroplasty. Medical treatment for arthritis with anti-inflammatory agents; 
transfusions for anemia and thrombocytopenia; surgical optic nerve 
decompression, hearing aids, and regular dental care and good oral hygiene. 
Prevention of primary manifestations: In ARO, hematopoietic stem cell 
transplantation (HSCT) can be curative; however, cranial nerve dysfunction is 
usually irreversible, and progressive neurologic sequelae occur in children with 
the neuronopathic form even after successful HSCT. Surveillance: Complete blood 
count, ophthalmologic examination, and audiologic evaluation at least once a 
year; dental evaluation every 6-12 months or as directed. For ARO, follow up as 
directed by the transplantation center following HSCT. Agents/circumstances to 
avoid: In ADOII, activities with high fracture risk. Orthopedic surgery should 
only be performed when absolutely necessary.
GENETIC COUNSELING: CLCN7-related osteopetrosis is inherited in an autosomal 
recessive or autosomal dominant manner: ARO is inherited in an autosomal 
recessive manner; about 40% of IAO is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner 
and about 60% in an autosomal dominant manner; and ADOII is inherited in an 
autosomal dominant manner. Autosomal recessive inheritance. If both parents are 
known to be heterozygous for a CLCN7 pathogenic variant associated with 
autosomal recessive osteopetrosis, each sib of an affected individual has at 
conception a 25% chance of inheriting biallelic pathogenic variants and being 
affected, a 50% chance of being an asymptomatic carrier, and a 25% chance of 
inheriting neither of the familial CLCN7 pathogenic variants. Carrier testing 
for at-risk relatives requires prior identification of the CLCN7 pathogenic 
variants in the family. Autosomal dominant inheritance. Most individuals 
diagnosed with autosomal dominant CLCN7-related osteopetrosis have an affected 
parent. Each child of an individual with autosomal dominant osteopetrosis has a 
50% chance of inheriting the pathogenic variant. Once the CLCN7 pathogenic 
variant(s) have been identified in an affected family member, prenatal testing 
and preimplantation genetic testing for CLCN7-related osteopetrosis are 
possible.

Copyright © 1993-2023, University of Washington, Seattle. GeneReviews is a 
registered trademark of the University of Washington, Seattle. All rights 
reserved.

PMID: 20301306


796. Nevoid Basal Cell Carcinoma Syndrome.

Evans DG(1), Farndon PA(2).

In: Adam MP, Feldman J, Mirzaa GM, Pagon RA, Wallace SE, Bean LJH, Gripp KW, 
Amemiya A, editors. GeneReviews(®) [Internet]. Seattle (WA): University of 
Washington, Seattle; 1993–2023.
2002 Jun 20 [updated 2023 Sep 21].

Author information:
(1)Genomic Medicine, Institute of Human Development, Manchester Academic Health 
Science Centre, Consultant in Medical Genetics, St Mary's Hospital and Christie 
Hospital, Professor of Medical Genetics and Cancer Epidemiology, University of 
Manchester, Manchester, United Kingdom
(2)Clinical Genetics Unit, Birmingham Women's Hospital, Consultant Clinical 
Geneticist, West Midlands Regional Genetics Service, Professor of Clinical 
Genetics, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, United Kingdom

CLINICAL CHARACTERISTICS: Nevoid basal cell carcinoma syndrome (NBCCS) is 
characterized by the development of multiple jaw keratocysts, frequently 
beginning in the second decade of life, and/or basal cell carcinomas (BCCs) 
usually from the third decade onward. Approximately 60% of individuals have a 
recognizable appearance with macrocephaly, frontal bossing, coarse facial 
features, and facial milia. Most individuals have skeletal anomalies (e.g., 
bifid ribs, wedge-shaped vertebrae). Ectopic calcification, particularly in the 
falx, is present in more than 90% of affected individuals by age 20 years. 
Cardiac and ovarian fibromas occur in approximately 2% and 20% of individuals 
respectively. Approximately 5% of all children with NBCCS develop 
medulloblastoma (primitive neuroectodermal tumor), generally the desmoplastic 
subtype. The risk of developing medulloblastoma is substantially higher in 
individuals with an SUFU pathogenic variant (33%) than in those with a PTCH1 
pathogenic variant (<2%). Peak incidence is at age one to two years. Life 
expectancy in NBCCS is not significantly different from average.
DIAGNOSIS/TESTING: The diagnosis of NBCCS is established in a proband who 
fulfills existing diagnostic clinical criteria. Identification of a heterozygous 
germline pathogenic variant in PTCH1 or SUFU on molecular genetic testing 
establishes the diagnosis if clinical features are inconclusive.
MANAGEMENT: Treatment of manifestations: Best provided by specialists 
experienced with the condition; keratocysts usually require surgical excision; 
early treatment of BCCs to ensure complete eradication of aggressive BCCs and to 
preserve normal tissue to prevent disfigurement; sonic hedgehog inhibitors such 
as vismodegib to treat severe BCCs; preservation of ovarian tissue whenever 
ovarian fibromas require surgical treatment. However, the cost of treatment has 
meant that the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence in the UK has 
judged the treatment not cost effective. Prevention of primary manifestations: 
Avoidance of direct sun exposure through the use of complete sunblock and 
covering of exposed skin with long sleeves, high collars, and hats. 
Surveillance: Monitoring of head circumference throughout childhood; 
developmental assessment and physical examination every six months in the first 
years of life because of increased risk for medulloblastoma; in those older than 
age eight years, orthopantogram every 12-18 months to identify jaw keratocysts; 
skin examination at least annually. Agents/circumstances to avoid: Radiotherapy 
if there are alternative treatments, especially in childhood; diagnostic x-rays 
should be used sparingly; direct sun exposure should be limited; excessive sun 
exposure increases the likelihood of developing BCCs. Evaluation of relatives at 
risk: Because of the need for surveillance for complications of NBCCS 
(medulloblastoma in children; jaw cysts and BCCs in adults) and the need to 
avoid sun exposure, clarification of the genetic status of at-risk relatives, 
including children, is appropriate.
GENETIC COUNSELING: NBCCS is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. 
Approximately 70%-80% of individuals with NBCCS have an affected parent and 
about 20%-30% have NBCCS as the result of a de novo pathogenic variant. The 
offspring of an affected individual are at a 50% risk of inheriting NBCCS. 
Prenatal testing for pregnancies at risk is possible if the PTCH1 or SUFU 
pathogenic variant has been identified in an affected family member.

Copyright © 1993-2023, University of Washington, Seattle. GeneReviews is a 
registered trademark of the University of Washington, Seattle. All rights 
reserved.

PMID: 20301330


797. Familial Dysautonomia.

Bar-Aluma BE(1).

In: Adam MP, Feldman J, Mirzaa GM, Pagon RA, Wallace SE, Bean LJH, Gripp KW, 
Amemiya A, editors. GeneReviews(®) [Internet]. Seattle (WA): University of 
Washington, Seattle; 1993–2023.
2003 Jan 21 [updated 2021 Nov 4].

Author information:
(1)Pediatric Pulmonology Unit, National Center for Familial Dysautonomia, Edmond 
and Lily Safra Children's Hospital, Sheba Medical Center;, Sackler Faculty of 
Medicine, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel

CLINICAL CHARACTERISTICS: Familial dysautonomia, which affects the development 
and survival of sensory, sympathetic, and parasympathetic neurons, is a 
debilitating disorder present from birth. Neuronal degeneration progresses 
throughout life. Affected individuals have gastrointestinal dysfunction, 
autonomic crises (i.e., hypertensive vomiting attacks), recurrent pneumonia, 
altered pain sensitivity, altered temperature perception, and blood pressure 
instability. Hypotonia contributes to delay in acquisition of motor milestones. 
Optic neuropathy results in progressive vision loss. Older individuals often 
have a broad-based and ataxic gait that deteriorates over time. Developmental 
delay / intellectual disability occur in about 21% of individuals. Life 
expectancy is decreased.
DIAGNOSIS/TESTING: The diagnosis of familial dysautonomia is established in a 
proband with suggestive findings and biallelic pathogenic variants in ELP1 
(formerly IKBKAP) identified by molecular genetic testing.
MANAGEMENT: Treatment of manifestations: Affected individuals are often managed 
by multidisciplinary specialists that include neurologists, physiatrists, 
orthopedic surgeons, physical and occupational therapists, speech-language 
pathologists, pulmonologists, cardiologists, nephrologists, ophthalmologists, 
dentists and dental hygienists, and social workers. Feeding teams manage 
neurogenic dysphagia; mental health professionals treat anxiety. Surveillance: 
Routine monitoring of the following: weight, nutrition, safety of oral feeding, 
developmental/educational progress, mental status, pulmonary function, 
sleep-disordered breathing, frequency and severity of dysautonomic crises, blood 
pressure lability, vision and low vision needs, ataxia and activities of daily 
living, spine for scoliosis, dental care and needs; assessment of caregiver 
needs. Agents/circumstances to avoid: The following can exacerbate symptoms: hot 
or humid weather; full bladder. Pregnancy management: Pregnancies in women with 
FD are considered high risk because of blood pressure lability. Visceral pain 
related to contractions during labor is perceived normally; therefore, analgesia 
should be provided.
GENETIC COUNSELING: Familial dysautonomia is inherited in an autosomal recessive 
manner. If both parents are known to be heterozygous for an ELP1 pathogenic 
variant, each sib of an affected individual has at conception a 25% chance of 
being affected, a 50% chance of being an asymptomatic carrier, and a 25% chance 
of being unaffected and not a carrier. Once the ELP1 pathogenic variants have 
been identified in an affected family member, carrier testing for at-risk 
relatives, prenatal testing for a pregnancy at increased risk, and 
preimplantation genetic testing are possible. Carrier screening is available on 
a population basis for individuals of Ashkenazi Jewish heritage.

Copyright © 1993-2023, University of Washington, Seattle. GeneReviews is a 
registered trademark of the University of Washington, Seattle. All rights 
reserved.

PMID: 20301359


798. COL1A1/2 Osteogenesis Imperfecta.

Steiner RD(1)(2), Basel D(3).

In: Adam MP, Feldman J, Mirzaa GM, Pagon RA, Wallace SE, Bean LJH, Gripp KW, 
Amemiya A, editors. GeneReviews(®) [Internet]. Seattle (WA): University of 
Washington, Seattle; 1993–2023.
2005 Jan 28 [updated 2021 May 6].

Author information:
(1)Marshfield Clinic Health System, Marshfield, Wisconsin
(2)University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin
(3)Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, Wisconsin

CLINICAL CHARACTERISTICS: COL1A1/2 osteogenesis imperfecta (COL1A1/2-OI) is 
characterized by fractures with minimal or absent trauma, variable 
dentinogenesis imperfecta (DI), and, in adult years, hearing loss. The clinical 
features of COL1A1/2-OI represent a continuum ranging from perinatal lethality 
to individuals with severe skeletal deformities, mobility impairments, and very 
short stature to nearly asymptomatic individuals with a mild predisposition to 
fractures, normal dentition, normal stature, and normal life span. Fractures can 
occur in any bone but are most common in the extremities. DI is characterized by 
gray or brown teeth that may appear translucent, wear down, and break easily. 
COL1A1/2-OI has been classified into four types based on clinical presentation 
and radiographic findings. This classification system can be helpful in 
providing information about prognosis and management for a given individual. The 
four more common OI types are now referred to as follows: Classic non-deforming 
OI with blue sclerae (previously OI type I). Perinatally lethal OI (previously 
OI type II). Progressively deforming OI (previously OI type III). Common 
variable OI with normal sclerae (previously OI type IV).
DIAGNOSIS/TESTING: The diagnosis of COL1A1/2-OI is established in a proband by 
identification of a heterozygous pathogenic or likely pathogenic variant in 
COL1A1 or COL1A2 by molecular genetic testing.
MANAGEMENT: Treatment of manifestations: Ideally, management is by a 
multidisciplinary team including specialists in medical management of OI, 
clinical genetics, orthopedics, rehabilitation medicine, pediatric dentistry, 
otology/otolaryngology, and mental health. Parents / other caregivers must 
practice safe handling techniques. Mainstays of treatment include: bracing of 
limbs depending on OI severity; orthotics to stabilize lax joints; physical 
activity; physical and occupational therapy to maximize bone stability, improve 
mobility, prevent contractures, prevent head and spine deformity, and improve 
muscle strengthening; mobility devices as needed; and pain management. Fractures 
are treated with: as short a period of immobility as is practical; small and 
lightweight casts; physical therapy as soon as casts are removed; and 
intramedullary rodding when indicated to provide anatomic positioning of limbs. 
Progressive scoliosis in severe OI may not respond well to conservative or 
surgical management. Bisphosphonates continue to be used most extensively in 
severely affected children with OI. Surgical treatment for basilar impression 
should be done in a center experienced in the necessary procedures. Dental care 
strives to maintain both primary and permanent dentition, a functional bite or 
occlusion, optimal gingival health, and overall appearance. Conductive hearing 
loss may be improved with middle ear surgery; later-onset sensorineural hearing 
loss is treated in the same manner as when caused by other conditions. Mental 
health support through psychiatry/psychology and appropriate social worker 
intervention can improve quality of life. Prevention of secondary complications: 
During general anesthesia, proper positioning on the operating room table and 
use of cushioning such as egg crate foam can help avoid fractures. Surveillance: 
Orthopedic evaluation with ancillary therapy services (physical and 
rehabilitation medicine) as indicated every three months until age one year, 
every six months from ages one to three years, and then annually or with any new 
fractures. Physical therapy evaluation in infancy for those with motor delays 
and as needed to improve mobility and function. CT and/or MRI examination with 
views across the base of the skull to evaluate for basilar impression if 
concerning signs or symptoms are present. Cervical spine flexion and extension 
radiographs in children able to cooperate with the examination or before 
participating in sporting activities in more mildly affected individuals. 
Twice-yearly dental visits beginning in early childhood or even infancy for 
those with (or at risk for) DI. Hearing evaluation at three- to five-year 
intervals from age five years until hearing loss is identified, then as 
indicated based on the nature and degree of hearing loss and associated 
interventions. Agents/circumstances to be avoided: Contact sports should be 
avoided.
GENETIC COUNSELING: COL1A1/2-OI is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. 
The proportion of affected individuals who represent simplex cases (i.e., a 
single occurrence of the disorder in a family) varies by the severity of 
disease. Approximately 60% of probands with mild OI represent simplex cases. 
Virtually 100% of probands with progressively deforming or perinatally lethal OI 
represent simplex cases and have a de novo pathogenic variant or a pathogenic 
variant inherited from a parent with somatic and/or germline mosaicism. Parental 
somatic and/or germline mosaicism is present in up to 16% of families. Each 
child of an individual with a dominantly inherited form of COL1A1/2-OI has a 50% 
chance of inheriting the causative variant and of developing some manifestations 
of OI. Prenatal testing in at-risk pregnancies can be performed by molecular 
genetic testing if the COL1A1 or COL1A2 causative variant has been identified in 
an affected relative. Ultrasound examination performed in a center with 
experience in diagnosing OI can be valuable in the prenatal diagnosis of the 
lethal form and most severe forms prior to 20 weeks' gestation; milder forms may 
be detected later in pregnancy if fractures or deformities occur.

Copyright © 1993-2023, University of Washington, Seattle. GeneReviews is a 
registered trademark of the University of Washington, Seattle. All rights 
reserved.

PMID: 20301472


799. FBN1-Related Marfan Syndrome.

Dietz H(1).

In: Adam MP, Feldman J, Mirzaa GM, Pagon RA, Wallace SE, Bean LJH, Gripp KW, 
Amemiya A, editors. GeneReviews(®) [Internet]. Seattle (WA): University of 
Washington, Seattle; 1993–2023.
2001 Apr 18 [updated 2022 Feb 17].

Author information:
(1)Victor A McKusick Professor, Departments of Genetic Medicine, Pediatrics, 
Medicine, and Molecular Biology & Genetics;, Investigator, Howard Hughes Medical 
Institute;, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland

CLINICAL CHARACTERISTICS: FBN1-related Marfan syndrome (Marfan syndrome), a 
systemic disorder of connective tissue with a high degree of clinical 
variability, comprises a broad phenotypic continuum ranging from mild (features 
of Marfan syndrome in one or a few systems) to severe and rapidly progressive 
neonatal multiorgan disease. Cardinal manifestations involve the ocular, 
skeletal, and cardiovascular systems. Ocular findings include myopia (>50% of 
affected individuals); ectopia lentis (seen in approximately 60% of affected 
individuals); and an increased risk for retinal detachment, glaucoma, and early 
cataracts. Skeletal system manifestations include bone overgrowth and joint 
laxity; disproportionately long extremities for the size of the trunk 
(dolichostenomelia); overgrowth of the ribs that can push the sternum in (pectus 
excavatum) or out (pectus carinatum); and scoliosis that ranges from mild to 
severe and progressive. The major morbidity and early mortality in Marfan 
syndrome relate to the cardiovascular system and include dilatation of the aorta 
at the level of the sinuses of Valsalva (predisposing to aortic tear and 
rupture), mitral valve prolapse with or without regurgitation, tricuspid valve 
prolapse, and enlargement of the proximal pulmonary artery. Severe and prolonged 
regurgitation of the mitral and/or aortic valve can predispose to left 
ventricular dysfunction and occasionally heart failure. With proper management, 
the life expectancy of someone with Marfan syndrome approximates that of the 
general population.
DIAGNOSIS/TESTING: The diagnosis of Marfan syndrome is established in a proband 
(by definition a person without a known family history of Marfan syndrome) who 
has an FBN1 pathogenic variant known to be associated with Marfan syndrome and 
EITHER of the following: Aortic root enlargement (z score ≥2.0). Ectopia lentis.
MANAGEMENT: Treatment of manifestations: Comprehensive management by a 
multidisciplinary team including a clinical geneticist, cardiologist, 
ophthalmologist, orthopedist, and cardiothoracic surgeon is strongly 
recommended. Treatment typically includes spectacle correction for refractive 
errors and, sometimes, surgical removal of a dislocated lens with artificial 
lens implantation (preferably after growth is complete). Glaucoma, cataracts, 
and retinal detachment are treated in the standard fashion per an 
ophthalmologist. Scoliosis may require bracing or surgical stabilization; repair 
of pectus deformity is largely cosmetic. Functional deficits or pain associated 
with protusio acetabulae may respond to physical therapy, analgesics, or 
anti-inflammatory medications. Orthotics and arch supports can lessen leg 
fatigue, joint pain, and muscle cramps associated with pes planus. Dental 
crowding may be addressed through orthodontia and a palatal expander may be 
considered in some cases. Surgical repair of the aorta is indicated either when 
the maximal measurement of the aortic root approaches 5.0 cm in adults or older 
children, when the rate of increase of the aortic root diameter approaches 
0.5-1.0 cm per year, or if there is progressive and severe aortic regurgitation. 
For younger children, aortic root surgery should be considered once: (1) the 
rate of increase of the aortic root diameter approaches 0.5-1.0 cm per year, or 
(2) there is progressive and severe aortic regurgitation. Severe and progressive 
mitral valve regurgitation with attendant ventricular dysfunction requires 
immediate attention of a cardiologist or cardiothoracic surgeon and is the 
leading indication for cardiovascular surgery in children with Marfan syndrome. 
Afterload-reducing agents can improve cardiovascular function when congestive 
heart failure is present. Standard treatment for hernias and pneumothorax is 
recommended. There are no known effective therapies for symptomatic dural 
ectasia. Prevention of primary manifestations: Medications that reduce 
hemodynamic stress on the aortic wall, such as beta-blockers or angiotensin 
receptor blockers (ARBs), are routinely prescribed. This therapy should be 
managed by a cardiologist or clinical geneticist familiar with its use. Therapy 
is generally initiated at the time of diagnosis with Marfan syndrome at any age 
or upon appreciation of progressive aortic root dilatation even in the absence 
of a definitive diagnosis. Surveillance: Measurement of length/height/weight at 
each visit. Ophthalmologic examination annually or as clinically indicated. 
Clinical assessment for chest wall deformities and scoliosis at each visit until 
skeletal maturity, although severe scoliosis may require ongoing surveillance in 
adulthood. At least annual dental evaluation, including orthodontia, as 
indicated. Echocardiography annually when aortic dimensions are small and the 
rate of aortic dilatation is slow; more frequent than annual examinations are 
indicated when the aortic root diameter exceeds approximately 4.5 cm in adults, 
rates of aortic dilatation exceed approximately 0.3 cm per year, or significant 
aortic regurgitation is present. Intermittent surveillance of the entire aorta 
with CT or MRA scans beginning in young adulthood or at least annually in anyone 
with a history of aortic root replacement or dissection. Agents/circumstances to 
avoid: Contact sports, competitive sports, and isometric exercise; activities 
that cause joint injury or pain; agents that stimulate the cardiovascular 
system, including decongestants and excessive caffeine; agents that cause 
vasoconstriction, including triptans; LASIK correction of refractive errors; 
breathing against resistance or positive pressure ventilation in those with a 
documented predisposition for pneumothorax; fluoroquinolone antibiotics, which 
may exacerbate the predisposition for aneurysm and dissection; classes of 
antihypertensive agents (e.g., calcium channel blockers, ACE inhibitors) where 
there is an absence of direct evidence for their efficacy or safety in 
individuals with Marfan syndrome. Evaluation of relatives at risk: It is 
recommended that the genetic status of at-risk relatives of any age be clarified 
so that affected individuals can undergo routine surveillance for early 
detection of medically significant complications, particularly potentially 
life-threatening cardiac manifestations. Genetic status of at-risk relatives can 
be established EITHER: By molecular genetic testing if the FBN1 pathogenic 
variant in the family is known; OR. In those with a rigorously defined family 
history of Marfan syndrome, by the presence of ONE OR MORE of the following: 
Ectopia lentis. A systemic score ≥7. Aortic root dilatation (z score ≥2.0 for 
individuals age ≥20 years or z score ≥3.0 for those age <20 years). Pregnancy 
management: An individual with Marfan syndrome should consider pregnancy only 
after appropriate counseling from a clinical geneticist or cardiologist familiar 
with this condition, a genetic counselor, and a high-risk obstetrician because 
of the risk of more rapid dilation of the aorta or aortic dissection during 
pregnancy, delivery, or in the immediate postpartum period. Cardiovascular 
imaging with echocardiography should be performed every two to three months 
during pregnancy to monitor aortic root size and growth. Monitoring should 
continue in the immediate postpartum period because of the increased risk for 
aortic dissection. Individuals with Marfan syndrome who anticipate pregnancy or 
become pregnant should continue use of beta-blockers; however, some other 
classes of medications such as ARBs should be discontinued because of the 
increased risk for fetal loss, oligohydramnios, and abnormal development, often 
related to second- and third-trimester exposure.
GENETIC COUNSELING: Marfan syndrome is inherited in an autosomal dominant 
manner. Approximately 75% of individuals with Marfan syndrome have an affected 
parent; approximately 25% have a de novo FBN1 pathogenic variant. Each child of 
an individual with Marfan syndrome has a 50% chance of inheriting the pathogenic 
variant and the disorder. Once the FBN1 pathogenic variant has been identified 
in an affected family member, prenatal testing for a pregnancy at increased risk 
and preimplantation genetic testing are possible.

Copyright © 1993-2023, University of Washington, Seattle. GeneReviews is a 
registered trademark of the University of Washington, Seattle. All rights 
reserved.

PMID: 20301510


800. Troyer Syndrome.

Baple E(1), Crosby A(1).

In: Adam MP, Feldman J, Mirzaa GM, Pagon RA, Wallace SE, Bean LJH, Gripp KW, 
Amemiya A, editors. GeneReviews(®) [Internet]. Seattle (WA): University of 
Washington, Seattle; 1993–2023.
2004 Nov 16 [updated 2019 Jun 6].

Author information:
(1)Medical Research Research, Innovation, Learning and Development Wellcome 
Wolfson Centre University of Exeter Medical School Exeter, United Kingdom

CLINICAL CHARACTERISTICS: Troyer syndrome is characterized by progressive 
spastic paraparesis, dysarthria, pseudobulbar palsy, distal amyotrophy, short 
stature, and subtle skeletal abnormalities. Most affected children exhibit 
delays in walking and speech and difficulty in managing oral secretions, 
followed by increased lower-limb spasticity and slow deterioration in both gait 
and speech. Mild cerebellar signs are common. The most severely affected 
individuals have choreoathetosis. Emotional lability / difficulty in controlling 
emotions and affective disorders, such as inappropriate euphoria and/or crying, 
are frequently described. Life expectancy is normal.
DIAGNOSIS/TESTING: The diagnosis of Troyer syndrome is established in an 
individual with characteristic clinical findings. Identification of biallelic 
pathogenic variants in SPART confirms the diagnosis if clinical features are 
inconclusive.
MANAGEMENT: Treatment of manifestations: Antispasticity drugs; daily physical 
therapy; occupational therapy, assistive walking devices, and ankle-foot 
orthotics as needed; antidepressant or mood stabilizer medication for 
individuals with emotional lability. Surveillance: Neurologic and 
developmental/cognitive assessments; monitoring for dysphagia to reduce the risk 
of aspiration. Agents/circumstances to avoid: Dantrolene should be avoided in 
persons who are ambulatory as it may induce irreversible weakness, which can 
adversely interfere with overall mobility.
GENETIC COUNSELING: Troyer syndrome is inherited in an autosomal recessive 
manner. At conception, each sib of an affected individual has a 25% chance of 
being affected, a 50% chance of being an asymptomatic carrier, and a 25% chance 
of being unaffected and not a carrier. Carrier testing for at-risk relatives and 
prenatal testing for pregnancies at increased risk are possible if both 
pathogenic variants have been identified in an affected family member.

Copyright © 1993-2023, University of Washington, Seattle. GeneReviews is a 
registered trademark of the University of Washington, Seattle. All rights 
reserved.

PMID: 20301556


801. Neuronal Ceroid-Lipofuscinoses – RETIRED CHAPTER, FOR HISTORICAL REFERENCE
ONLY.

Mole SE(1), Williams RE(2).

In: Adam MP, Feldman J, Mirzaa GM, Pagon RA, Wallace SE, Bean LJH, Gripp KW, 
Amemiya A, editors. GeneReviews(®) [Internet]. Seattle (WA): University of 
Washington, Seattle; 1993–2023.
2001 Oct 10 [updated 2013 Aug 1].

Author information:
(1)MRC Laboratory for Molecular Cell Biology and UCL Institute of Child Health, 
University College London, London, United Kingdom
(2)Consultant Paediatric Neurologist, Department of Paediatric Neurology, The 
Evelina Children's Hospital, Guy's and St Thomas' NHS Foundation Trust, London, 
United Kingdom

NOTE: THIS PUBLICATION HAS BEEN RETIRED. THIS ARCHIVAL VERSION IS FOR HISTORICAL 
REFERENCE ONLY, AND THE INFORMATION MAY BE OUT OF DATE.
CLINICAL CHARACTERISTICS: The neuronal ceroid-lipofuscinoses (NCLs) are a group 
of inherited, neurodegenerative, lysosomal storage disorders characterized by 
progressive intellectual and motor deterioration, seizures, and early death. 
Visual loss is a feature of most forms. Clinical phenotypes have been 
characterized traditionally according to the age of onset and order of 
appearance of clinical features into infantile, late-infantile, juvenile, adult, 
and Northern epilepsy (also known as progressive epilepsy with mental 
retardation [EPMR]). There is however genetic and allelic heterogeneity; a 
proposed new nomenclature and classification system has been developed to take 
into account both the responsible gene and the age at disease onset; for 
example, CLN1 disease, infantile onset and CLN1 disease, juvenile onset are both 
caused by pathogenic variants in PPT1 but with differing age of onset. The most 
prevalent NCLs are CLN3 disease, classic juvenile and CLN2 disease, classic late 
infantile (although prevalence varies by ethnicity and country of family 
origin): CLN2 disease, classic late infantile. The first symptoms typically 
appear between age two and four years, usually starting with epilepsy, followed 
by regression of developmental milestones, myoclonic ataxia, and pyramidal 
signs. Visual impairment typically appears at age four to six years and rapidly 
progresses to light /dark awareness only. Life expectancy ranges from age six 
years to early teenage. CLN3 disease, classic juvenile. Onset is usually between 
ages four and ten years. Rapidly progressing visual loss resulting in severe 
visual impairment within one to two years is often the first clinical sign. 
Epilepsy with generalized tonic-clonic seizures and/or complex-partial seizures 
typically appears around age ten years. Life expectancy ranges from the late 
teens to the 30s. Other forms of NCL may present with behavior changes, 
epilepsy, visual impairment, or slowing of developmental progress and then loss 
of skills. The course may be extremely variable. Some genotype-phenotype 
information is available.
DIAGNOSIS/TESTING: The diagnosis of an NCL is increasingly based on assay of 
enzyme activity and molecular genetic testing. In unusual cases diagnosis relies 
on electron microscopy (EM) of biopsied tissues. The diagnostic testing strategy 
in a proband depends on the age of onset. Pathogenic variants in thirteen genes 
— PPT1, TPP1, CLN3, CLN5, CLN6, MFSD8, CLN8, CTSD, DNAJC5, CTSF, ATP13A2, GRN, 
KCTD7 — are known to cause NCL.
MANAGEMENT: Treatment of manifestations: Treatment is currently symptomatic and 
palliative only. Seizures, malnutrition, gastroesophageal reflux, pneumonia, 
sialorrhea, depression and anxiety, spasticity, Parkinsonian symptoms, and 
dystonia can be effectively managed. Antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) should be 
selected with caution. Benzodiazepines may help control seizures, anxiety, and 
spasticity. Trihexyphenydate may improve dystonia and sialorrhea. Individuals 
with swallowing problems may benefit from placement of a gastric (G) tube. 
Antidepressants and antipsychotic agents are sometimes indicated for those with 
CLN3 disease. Surveillance: Routine medical management of children and young 
adults with complex neurodisability will be relevant to all those affected by 
NCL, and may include surveillance for swallowing difficulties and recurrent 
aspiration; radiograph surveillance of hip joints and spine; screening ECG for 
those with CLN3 disease who are older than age 16 years. Agents/circumstances to 
avoid: Carbamazepine and phenytoin may increase seizure activity and myoclonus 
and result in clinical deterioration; lamotrigine may exacerbate seizures and 
myoclonus, especially in CLN2 disease.
GENETIC COUNSELING: The NCLs are inherited in an autosomal recessive manner with 
the exception of adult onset, which can be inherited in either an autosomal 
recessive or an autosomal dominant manner. Autosomal recessive NCL. The parents 
of a child with an autosomal recessive form of NCL are obligate heterozygotes, 
and therefore carry one mutated allele. Heterozygotes have no symptoms. At 
conception, each sib has a 25% chance of being affected, a 50% chance of being 
an asymptomatic carrier, and a 25% chance of being unaffected and not a carrier. 
Carrier testing for at-risk relatives is possible if the pathogenic variants in 
the family are known. Prenatal testing for pregnancies at increased risk is 
possible if the proband has documented deficient enzyme activity or if the 
pathogenic variant(s) have been identified in the family.

Copyright © 1993-2023, University of Washington, Seattle. GeneReviews is a 
registered trademark of the University of Washington, Seattle. All rights 
reserved.

PMID: 20301601


802. Laing Distal Myopathy.

Lamont P(1), Laing NG(2).

In: Adam MP, Feldman J, Mirzaa GM, Pagon RA, Wallace SE, Bean LJH, Gripp KW, 
Amemiya A, editors. GeneReviews(®) [Internet]. Seattle (WA): University of 
Washington, Seattle; 1993–2023.
2006 Oct 17 [updated 2021 Feb 4].

Author information:
(1)Professor, Department of Neurology Royal Perth Hospital Perth, Western 
Australia
(2)Professor, NH & MRC Principal Research Fellow, Harry Perkins Institute for 
Medical Research University of Western Australia Nedlands, Western Australia

CLINICAL CHARACTERISTICS: Laing distal myopathy is characterized by early-onset 
weakness (usually before age 5 years) that initially involves the dorsiflexors 
of the ankles and great toes and then the finger extensors, especially those of 
the third and fourth fingers. Weakness of the neck flexors is seen in most 
affected individuals and mild facial weakness is often present. After distal 
weakness has been present for more than ten years, mild proximal weakness may be 
observed. Life expectancy is normal.
DIAGNOSIS/TESTING: The diagnosis of Laing distal myopathy is established in a 
proband with suggestive findings and a heterozygous pathogenic variant in MYH7 
identified by molecular genetic testing.
MANAGEMENT: Treatment of manifestations: Physiotherapy to prevent or treat 
tightening of the Achilles tendon is helpful. In more advanced cases, 
lightweight splinting of the ankle (e.g., with an ankle-foot orthosis) can be 
useful. Standard medical treatment under the supervision of a cardiologist is 
recommended for cardiomyopathy; surgical stabilization of the spine is used to 
treat kyphoscoliosis. Surveillance: Annual neurologic examination; repeat 
electrocardiogram and echocardiogram if symptoms of cardiac insufficiency occur; 
regular evaluation for scoliosis/kyphoscoliosis (especially during rapid 
growth); respiratory assessment if symptoms suggest sleep-related respiratory 
insufficiency and obstructive sleep apnea.
GENETIC COUNSELING: Laing distal myopathy is an autosomal dominant disorder. 
Approximately 65%-70% of affected individuals have an affected parent; de novo 
pathogenic variants in MYH7 account for 30%-35% of individuals with Laing distal 
myopathy. If a parent of the proband is affected and/or is known to have the 
pathogenic variant identified in the proband, the risk to the sibs of inheriting 
the pathogenic variant is 50%. Once the MYH7 pathogenic variant has been 
identified in an affected family member, prenatal testing for a pregnancy at 
increased risk and preimplantation genetic testing for Laing distal myopathy are 
possible.

Copyright © 1993-2023, University of Washington, Seattle. GeneReviews is a 
registered trademark of the University of Washington, Seattle. All rights 
reserved.

PMID: 20301606


803. Facioscapulohumeral Muscular Dystrophy.

Preston MK(1), Tawil R(2), Wang LH(1).

In: Adam MP, Feldman J, Mirzaa GM, Pagon RA, Wallace SE, Bean LJH, Gripp KW, 
Amemiya A, editors. GeneReviews(®) [Internet]. Seattle (WA): University of 
Washington, Seattle; 1993–2023.
1999 Mar 8 [updated 2020 Feb 6].

Author information:
(1)University of Washington Seattle, Washington
(2)University of Rochester Medical Center Rochester, New York

CLINICAL CHARACTERISTICS: Facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy (FSHD) 
typically presents with weakness of the facial muscles, the stabilizers of the 
scapula, or the dorsiflexors of the foot. Severity is highly variable. Weakness 
is slowly progressive and approximately 20% of affected individuals eventually 
require a wheelchair. Life expectancy is not shortened.
DIAGNOSIS/TESTING: The diagnosis of FSHD1 is established in a proband with 
characteristic clinical features by identification of a heterozygous pathogenic 
contraction of the D4Z4 repeat array in the subtelomeric region of chromosome 
4q35 on a chromosome 4 permissive haplotype. The diagnosis of FSHD2 is 
established in a proband by identification of hypomethylation of the D4Z4 repeat 
array in the subtelomeric region of chromosome 4q35 on a chromosome 4 permissive 
haplotype. Hypomethylation of the D4Z4 repeat array can be the result of a 
heterozygous pathogenic variant in SMCHD1 or DNMT3B.
MANAGEMENT: Treatment of manifestations: Consultation with a physical therapist 
to establish appropriate exercise regimen; ankle/foot orthoses to improve 
mobility and prevent falls; occupational and speech therapy in individuals with 
infantile onset; surgical fixation of the scapula to the chest wall may improve 
range of motion of the arms over the short term; management of chronic pain by 
physical therapy and medication; monitoring respiratory function; lubricants to 
prevent drying of the sclera or taping the eyes shut during sleep to treat 
exposure keratitis; treatment for retinal vasculopathy as per ophthalmologist; 
standard treatment of sensorineural hearing loss. Surveillance: Annual physical 
therapy assessment; Pain should be assessed at regular visits to the primary 
care physician or physical therapist; screening for hypoventilation in 
individuals with abnormal PFTs, severe proximal weakness, kyphoscoliosis, 
wheelchair dependence, or comorbid disease affecting ventilation; pulmonary 
consultation for FVC <60%, excessive daytime somnolence or nonrestorative sleep, 
and prior to surgical procedures requiring anesthesia; annual dilated 
ophthalmoscopy in individuals with early childhood-onset FSHD with large 
pathogenic contraction of D4Z4 and adults with visual symptoms; audiometry in 
infants at each visit and annually in children.
GENETIC COUNSELING: FSHD1 is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. 
Approximately 70%-90% of individuals have inherited the disease-causing deletion 
from a parent, and approximately 10%-30% of affected individuals have FSHD as 
the result of a de novo deletion. Offspring of an affected individual have a 50% 
chance of inheriting the deletion. Prenatal testing for a pregnancy at increased 
risk is possible if the D4Z4 pathogenic contraction has been identified in the 
family. FSHD2 is inherited in a digenic manner.

Copyright © 1993-2023, University of Washington, Seattle. GeneReviews is a 
registered trademark of the University of Washington, Seattle. All rights 
reserved.

PMID: 20301616


804. Craniometaphyseal Dysplasia, Autosomal Dominant.

Reichenberger E(1), Chen IP(2).

In: Adam MP, Feldman J, Mirzaa GM, Pagon RA, Wallace SE, Bean LJH, Gripp KW, 
Amemiya A, editors. GeneReviews(®) [Internet]. Seattle (WA): University of 
Washington, Seattle; 1993–2023.
2007 Aug 27 [updated 2020 Jun 11].

Author information:
(1)Professor, Department of Reconstructive Sciences, Center for Regenerative 
Medicine and Skeletal Development, UConn Health (UCH), Farmington, Connecticut
(2)Associate Professor, Department of Oral Health and Diagnostic Sciences, UConn 
Health (UCH), Farmington, Connecticut

CLINICAL CHARACTERISTICS: Autosomal dominant craniometaphyseal dysplasia 
(designated AD-CMD in this review) is characterized by progressive diffuse 
hyperostosis of cranial bones evident clinically as wide nasal bridge, paranasal 
bossing, widely spaced eyes with an increase in bizygomatic width, and prominent 
mandible. Development of dentition may be delayed and teeth may fail to erupt as 
a result of hyperostosis and sclerosis of alveolar bone. Progressive thickening 
of craniofacial bones continues throughout life, often resulting in narrowing of 
the cranial foramina, including the foramen magnum. If untreated, compression of 
cranial nerves can lead to disabling conditions such as facial palsy, blindness, 
or deafness (conductive and/or sensorineural hearing loss). In individuals with 
typical uncomplicated AD-CMD life expectancy is normal; in those with severe 
AD-CMD life expectancy can be reduced as a result of compression of the foramen 
magnum.
DIAGNOSIS/TESTING: Diagnosis is based on clinical and radiographic findings that 
include diffuse hyperostosis of the cranial base, cranial vault, facial bones, 
and mandible as well as widening and radiolucency of metaphyses in long bones. 
Identification of a heterozygous pathogenic variant in ANKH by molecular genetic 
testing can confirm the diagnosis if clinical features are inconclusive.
MANAGEMENT: Treatment of manifestations: Treatment for feeding and respiratory 
issues per craniofacial team; surgical intervention to reduce compression of 
cranial nerves and the brain stem / spinal cord at the level of the foramen 
magnum. Severely overgrown facial bones can be contoured; however, surgical 
procedures can be technically difficult and bone regrowth is common. Hearing 
aids; vision aids and surgical treatment for optic nerve impaction; speech 
therapy; surgical intervention for malocclusion. Surveillance: Evaluation for 
feeding and respiratory issues at least annually. Neurologic evaluation for 
signs and symptoms of narrowing of the cranial foramina including the foramen 
magnum at least annually. Hearing and ophthalmologic assessment at least 
annually.
GENETIC COUNSELING: By definition, AD-CMD is inherited in an autosomal dominant 
manner. Most individuals diagnosed with AD-CMD have an affected parent; the 
proportion of individuals with AD-CMD caused by a de novo pathogenic variant is 
thought to be very low. Each child of an individual with AD-CMD has a 50% chance 
of inheriting the pathogenic variant. Once the AD-CMD-causing pathogenic variant 
has been identified in an affected family member, prenatal testing for a 
pregnancy at increased risk and preimplantation genetic testing are possible.

Copyright © 1993-2023, University of Washington, Seattle. GeneReviews is a 
registered trademark of the University of Washington, Seattle. All rights 
reserved.

PMID: 20301634


805. Dopamine Beta-Hydroxylase Deficiency.

Garland EM(1), Biaggioni I(2).

In: Adam MP, Feldman J, Mirzaa GM, Pagon RA, Wallace SE, Bean LJH, Gripp KW, 
Amemiya A, editors. GeneReviews(®) [Internet]. Seattle (WA): University of 
Washington, Seattle; 1993–2023.
2003 Sep 4 [updated 2019 Apr 25].

Author information:
(1)Associate Professor, Department of Medicine Vanderbilt University Medical 
Center Nashville, Tennessee
(2)Professor, Departments of Medicine and Pharmacology Vanderbilt University 
Medical Center Nashville, Tennessee

CLINICAL CHARACTERISTICS: Dopamine beta-hydroxylase (DBH) deficiency is 
characterized by lack of sympathetic noradrenergic function but normal 
parasympathetic and sympathetic cholinergic function. Affected individuals 
exhibit profound deficits in autonomic regulation of cardiovascular function 
that predispose to orthostatic hypotension. Although DBH deficiency appears to 
be present from birth, the diagnosis is not generally recognized until late 
childhood. The combination of ptosis of the eyelids in infants and children, 
together with hypotension, is suggestive of the disease. In the perinatal 
period, DBH deficiency has been complicated by vomiting, dehydration, 
hypotension, hypothermia, and hypoglycemia requiring repeated hospitalization; 
children have reduced exercise capacity. By early adulthood, individuals have 
profound orthostatic hypotension, greatly reduced exercise tolerance, ptosis of 
the eyelids, and nasal stuffiness. Presyncopal symptoms include dizziness, 
blurred vision, dyspnea, nuchal discomfort, and chest pain; symptoms may worsen 
in hot environments or after heavy meals or alcohol ingestion. Life expectancy 
is unknown, but some affected individuals have lived beyond age 60 years.
DIAGNOSIS/TESTING: The diagnosis of DBH is established in a proband with 
profound neurogenic orthostatic hypotension, minimal or absent plasma 
concentrations of norepinephrine and epinephrine, and a five- to tenfold 
elevation of plasma dopamine; it is confirmed with identification of biallelic 
pathogenic variants in DBH by molecular genetic testing.
MANAGEMENT: Treatment of manifestations: Administration of 
L-threo-3,4-dihydroxyphenylserine (droxidopa) restores norepinephrine and 
alleviates the orthostatic hypotension and other symptoms. Affected individuals 
do not respond as well to standard therapeutic approaches for autonomic failure. 
Surgery can correct ptosis. Surveillance: Renal function (measurement of plasma 
creatinine and BUN concentrations) is assessed every two years or more often if 
loss of renal function is evident; plasma magnesium and potassium should also be 
assessed. Yearly evaluation of efficacy of droxidopa against orthostatic 
hypotension as dosage adjustment may be required. Consultation with autonomic 
specialist prior to surgery or becoming pregnant. Agents/circumstances to avoid: 
Untreated individuals should avoid hot environments, strenuous exercise, 
standing motionless, and dehydration. Pregnancy management: Routine blood 
pressure monitoring during pregnancy and delivery, with adjustment of droxidopa 
dosage as needed; extra doses of droxidopa may be required during delivery and 
dose adjustment may be required post partum.
GENETIC COUNSELING: DBH deficiency is inherited in an autosomal recessive 
manner. At conception, each sib of an affected individual has a 25% chance of 
being affected, a 50% chance of being an asymptomatic carrier, and a 25% chance 
of being unaffected and not a carrier. Carrier testing for at-risk relatives is 
possible if both pathogenic variants in the family are known. Once the DBH 
pathogenic variants have been identified in an affected family member, prenatal 
testing for a pregnancy at increased risk and preimplantation genetic testing 
are possible.

Copyright © 1993-2023, University of Washington, Seattle. GeneReviews is a 
registered trademark of the University of Washington, Seattle. All rights 
reserved.

PMID: 20301647


806. Pseudoachondroplasia.

Briggs MD(1), Wright MJ(2).

In: Adam MP, Feldman J, Mirzaa GM, Pagon RA, Wallace SE, Bean LJH, Gripp KW, 
Amemiya A, editors. GeneReviews(®) [Internet]. Seattle (WA): University of 
Washington, Seattle; 1993–2023.
2004 Aug 20 [updated 2018 Aug 16].

