Author information:
(1)Professor of Skeletal Genetics, Institute of Genetic Medicine Newcastle 
University International Centre for Life Newcastle upon Tyne, United Kingdom
(2)Consultant in Clinical Genetics, Northern Genetics Service Newcastle upon 
Tyne Hospitals Newcastle upon Tyne, United Kingdom

CLINICAL CHARACTERISTICS: Pseudoachondroplasia is characterized by normal length 
at birth and normal facies. Often the presenting feature is a waddling gait, 
recognized at the onset of walking. Typically, the growth rate falls below the 
standard growth curve by approximately age two years, leading to a moderately 
severe form of disproportionate short-limb short stature. Joint pain during 
childhood, particularly in the large joints of the lower extremities, is common. 
Degenerative joint disease is progressive; approximately 50% of individuals with 
pseudoachondroplasia eventually require hip replacement surgery.
DIAGNOSIS/TESTING: The diagnosis of pseudoachondroplasia can be made on the 
basis of clinical findings and radiographic features. Identification of a 
heterozygous pathogenic variant in COMP on molecular genetic testing establishes 
the diagnosis if clinical features are inconclusive.
MANAGEMENT: Treatment of manifestations: Analgesics for joint pain; osteotomy 
for lower-limb malalignment; C1-C2 fixation for symptoms and radiographic 
evidence of cervical spine instability; rarely, surgery for scoliosis; attention 
to and social support for psychosocial issues related to short stature for 
affected individuals and their families. Prevention of secondary complications: 
Encourage physical activities that do not cause excessive wear and/or damage to 
the joints. Surveillance: Regular examinations for evidence of symptomatic lower 
limb malalignment, kyphoscoliosis, symptomatic joint hypermobility, degenerative 
joint disease, and neurologic manifestations, particularly spinal cord 
compression secondary to odontoid hypoplasia. Agents/circumstances to avoid: In 
those with odontoid hypoplasia, extreme neck flexion and extension should be 
avoided.
GENETIC COUNSELING: Pseudoachondroplasia is inherited in an autosomal dominant 
manner. Some individuals diagnosed with pseudoachondroplasia have an affected 
parent; the proportion of pseudoachondroplasia resulting from a de novo 
pathogenic variant is unknown. Each child of an individual with 
pseudoachondroplasia and a reproductive partner with normal bone growth has a 
50% chance of inheriting the pathogenic variant and having pseudoachondroplasia. 
Because many individuals with short stature select reproductive partners with 
short stature, offspring of individuals with pseudoachondroplasia may be at risk 
of having double heterozygosity for two dominantly inherited bone growth 
disorders. Prenatal testing for pregnancies at increased risk for 
pseudoachondroplasia is possible if the pathogenic variant in the family is 
known.

Copyright © 1993-2023, University of Washington, Seattle. GeneReviews is a 
registered trademark of the University of Washington, Seattle. All rights 
reserved.

PMID: 20301660


807. GDAP1-Related Hereditary Motor and Sensory Neuropathy.

Bird TD(1).

In: Adam MP, Feldman J, Mirzaa GM, Pagon RA, Wallace SE, Bean LJH, Gripp KW, 
Amemiya A, editors. GeneReviews(®) [Internet]. Seattle (WA): University of 
Washington, Seattle; 1993–2023.
2004 May 11 [updated 2017 Mar 30].

Author information:
(1)Seattle VA Medical Center Departments of Neurology and Medicine University of 
Washington Seattle, Washington

CLINICAL CHARACTERISTICS: GDAP1-related hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy 
(GDAP1-HMSN) is a peripheral neuropathy (also known as a subtype of 
Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease) that typically affects the lower extremities 
earlier and more severely than the upper extremities. As the neuropathy 
progresses, the distal upper extremities also become severely affected. Proximal 
muscles can also become weak. Age at onset ranges from infancy to early 
childhood. In most cases, disease progression causes disabilities within the 
first or second decade of life. At the end of the second decade, most 
individuals are wheelchair bound. Disease progression varies considerably even 
within the same family. The neuropathy can be either of the demyelinating type 
with reduced nerve conduction velocities or the axonal type with normal nerve 
conduction velocities. Vocal cord paresis is common. Intelligence is normal. 
Life expectancy is usually normal, but on occasion may be reduced because of 
secondary complications.
DIAGNOSIS/TESTING: Diagnosis of GDAP1-HMSN is based on clinical findings and 
confirmed by detection on molecular genetic testing of either biallelic 
pathogenic variants in GDAP1 in those with autosomal recessive inheritance or a 
heterozygous pathogenic variant in those with autosomal dominant inheritance.
MANAGEMENT: Treatment of manifestations: Treatment is symptomatic and involves 
evaluation and management by a multidisciplinary team that includes 
neurologists, physiatrists, orthopedic surgeons, and physical and occupational 
therapists. Treatment may include: daily heel cord stretching exercises to 
prevent Achilles tendon shortening, ankle/foot orthoses, orthopedic surgery, 
forearm crutches or canes, wheelchairs, treatment of musculoskeletal pain with 
acetaminophen or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents, and career and 
employment counseling. Surveillance: Regular evaluation by the multidisciplinary 
team to determine neurologic status and functional disability. 
Agents/circumstances to avoid: Drugs and medications known to cause nerve 
damage; obesity.
GENETIC COUNSELING: GDAP1-HMSN is usually inherited in an autosomal recessive 
(AR) manner; autosomal dominant (AD) inheritance is also observed. AR 
inheritance: At conception, each sib of an affected individual has a 25% chance 
of being affected, a 50% chance of being an asymptomatic carrier, and a 25% 
chance of being unaffected and not a carrier. Carrier testing for at-risk 
relatives is possible once the pathogenic variants in an affected family member 
have been identified. AD inheritance: Offspring of an individual with AD 
GDAP1-HMSN have a 50% risk of inheriting the GDAP1 pathogenic variant from their 
affected parent. Prenatal testing for pregnancies at increased risk for 
GDAP1-HMSN and preimplantation genetic testing are possible for families in 
which the pathogenic variant(s) have been identified.

Copyright © 1993-2023, University of Washington, Seattle. GeneReviews is a 
registered trademark of the University of Washington, Seattle. All rights 
reserved.

PMID: 20301711


808. TARDBP-Related Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis-Frontotemporal Dementia.

Manohar V(1), Crowley L(1), Sreedharan J(1).

In: Adam MP, Feldman J, Mirzaa GM, Pagon RA, Wallace SE, Bean LJH, Gripp KW, 
Amemiya A, editors. GeneReviews(®) [Internet]. Seattle (WA): University of 
Washington, Seattle; 1993–2023.
2009 Apr 23 [updated 2023 Jan 5].

Author information:
(1)Department of Basic and Clinical Neuroscience, IoPPN, King's College London, 
London, United Kingdom

CLINICAL CHARACTERISTICS: In this GeneReview, TARDBP amyotrophic lateral 
sclerosis-frontotemporal dementia (TARDBP-ALS-FTD) refers to the spectrum of 
phenotypes caused by pathogenic variants in TARDBP, the gene encoding TDP-43. 
The phenotypic spectrum encompasses pure (i.e., without other neurologic 
findings) amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS; most common), pure (i.e., without 
other neurologic findings) frontotemporal dementia (FTD; rare), a combination of 
ALS and FTD, and atypical neurologic phenotypes (very rare). Individuals with 
the same TARDBP pathogenic variant (even within the same family) may have 
clinical features that vary in both type and severity. Common manifestations are 
dysarthria and dysphagia; less common manifestations can include parkinsonism, 
cognitive deterioration, and behavioral and psychological manifestations of 
dementia. Life expectancy for TARDBP-ALS is highly variable and mainly 
associated with an individual's clinical features; overall disease duration 
averages three to five years. For TARDBP-FTD, disease duration averages one to 
16 years.
DIAGNOSIS/TESTING: The diagnosis of TARDBP-ALS-FTD is established in a proband 
with suggestive findings and most commonly a heterozygous pathogenic (or likely 
pathogenic) variant in TARDBP identified by molecular genetic testing. Rarely, 
homozygous pathogenic (or likely pathogenic) variants in TARDBP have been 
reported.
MANAGEMENT: Treatment of manifestations: There is no cure for TARDBP-ALS-FTD. 
Individuals benefit from multidisciplinary supportive care to improve quality of 
life, maximize function, and reduce complications. This can include care by 
specialists in neurology, physiotherapy, occupational therapy, speech-language 
therapy, nutrition, respiratory therapy, pulmonology, psychology, social work, 
genetic counselling, palliative care, and special nursing. Surveillance: 
Frequent monitoring of existing manifestations, the individual's response to 
supportive care, and the emergence of new manifestations by the treating 
clinicians is recommended.
GENETIC COUNSELING: TARDBP-ALS-FTD is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. 
About half of individuals diagnosed with TARDBP-ALS-FTD have an affected parent. 
Each child of an individual with TARDBP-ALS-FTD has a 50% chance of inheriting 
the TARDBP pathogenic variant. Once a TARDBP pathogenic variant has been 
identified in an affected family member, predictive testing for at-risk 
relatives and prenatal and preimplantation genetic testing for the presence of 
the TARDBP pathogenic variant are possible. (Note: Because the clinical 
presentation of TARDBP-ALS-FTD may differ among heterozygous family members, 
accurate prediction of future possible clinical manifestations in an individual 
found to have a familial TARDBP pathogenic variant is not possible.)

Copyright © 1993-2023, University of Washington, Seattle. GeneReviews is a 
registered trademark of the University of Washington, Seattle. All rights 
reserved.

PMID: 20301761


809. TSEN54 Pontocerebellar Hypoplasia.

van Dijk T(1), Baas F(1).

In: Adam MP, Feldman J, Mirzaa GM, Pagon RA, Wallace SE, Bean LJH, Gripp KW, 
Amemiya A, editors. GeneReviews(®) [Internet]. Seattle (WA): University of 
Washington, Seattle; 1993–2023.
2009 Sep 8 [updated 2020 May 28].

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Genetics, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, 
the Netherlands

CLINICAL CHARACTERISTICS: TSEN54 pontocerebellar hypoplasia (TSEN54-PCH) 
comprises three PCH phenotypes (PCH2, 4, and 5) that share characteristic 
neuroradiologic and neurologic findings. The three PCH phenotypes (which differ 
mainly in life expectancy) were considered to be distinct entities before their 
molecular basis was known. PCH2. Children usually succumb before age ten years 
(those with PCH4 and 5 usually succumb as neonates). Children with PCH2 have 
generalized clonus, uncoordinated sucking and swallowing, impaired cognitive 
development, lack of voluntary motor development, cortical blindness, and an 
increased risk for rhabdomyolysis during severe infections. Epilepsy is present 
in approximately 50%. PCH4. Neonates often have seizures, multiple joint 
contractures ("arthrogryposis"), generalized clonus, and central respiratory 
impairment. PCH5 resembles PCH4 and has been described in one family.
DIAGNOSIS/TESTING: The diagnosis of TSEN54-PCH is suspected in children with 
characteristic neuroradiologic and neurologic findings, and is confirmed by the 
presence of biallelic TSEN54 pathogenic variants.
MANAGEMENT: Treatment of manifestations: PCH2: Treatment of irritability, 
swallowing incoordination, epilepsy, and central visual impairment is 
symptomatic. Physiotherapy can be helpful. Adequate hydration during prolonged 
periods of high fever may help avoid rhabdomyolysis. PCH4 and PCH5: No specific 
therapy is available. Surveillance: PCH2: Routine monitoring of respiratory 
function, feeding, musculoskeletal and neurologic manifestations, developmental 
milestones, and family needs.
GENETIC COUNSELING: TSEN54-PCH is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. If 
both parents are known to be heterozygous for a TSEN54 pathogenic variant, each 
sib of an affected individual has at conception a 25% chance of inheriting both 
pathogenic variants and being affected, a 50% chance of inheriting one 
pathogenic variant and being an unaffected carrier, and a 25% chance of 
inheriting both normal alleles. Once the TSEN54 pathogenic variants have been 
identified in an affected family member, molecular genetic testing to determine 
carrier status of at-risk relatives, prenatal testing for a pregnancy at 
increased risk, and preimplantation genetic testing are possible.

Copyright © 1993-2023, University of Washington, Seattle. GeneReviews is a 
registered trademark of the University of Washington, Seattle. All rights 
reserved.

PMID: 20301773


810. Ataxia-Telangiectasia.

Veenhuis S(1), van Os N(2), Weemaes C(3), Kamsteeg EJ(4), Willemsen M(5).

In: Adam MP, Feldman J, Mirzaa GM, Pagon RA, Wallace SE, Bean LJH, Gripp KW, 
Amemiya A, editors. GeneReviews(®) [Internet]. Seattle (WA): University of 
Washington, Seattle; 1993–2023.
1999 Mar 19 [updated 2023 Oct 5].

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Amalia Children’s Hospital, Radboud University 
Medical Center, Nijmegen, the Netherlands
(2)Department of Neurology, Donders Institute for Brain, Cognition and 
Behaviour;, Radboud University Medical Center, Nijmegen, the Netherlands
(3)Amalia Children's Hospital, Radboud University Medical Center, Nijmegen, the 
Netherlands
(4)Department of Human Genetics, Radboud University Medical Center, Nijmegen, 
the Netherlands
(5)Department of Pediatric Neurology, Donders Institute for Brain, Cognition and 
Behaviour;, Amalia Children's Hospital, Radboud University Medical Center, 
Nijmegen, the Netherlands

CLINICAL CHARACTERISTICS: The phenotypic spectrum of ataxia-telangiectasia 
(A-T), a multisystem disorder, is a continuum ranging from classic A-T at the 
severe end and variant A-T at the milder end. Nonetheless, distinguishing 
between classic A-T and variant A-T on this spectrum helps understand 
differences in disease course, rate of progression, and life expectancy. Classic 
A-T is characterized by childhood onset of progressive neurologic manifestations 
(initially cerebellar ataxia, followed typically by extrapyramidal involvement 
and peripheral sensorimotor neuropathy), immunodeficiency (variably associated 
with abnormalities of humoral immunity, cellular immunity, or combined immune 
deficiency), pulmonary disease (resulting from recurrent infections, immune 
deficiency, aspiration, interstitial lung disease, and neurologic 
abnormalities), and increased risk of malignancy. Although it is generally 
accepted that intellectual disability is not common in A-T, disturbances in 
cerebellar as well as non-cerebellar brain areas and networks may result in 
cognitive deficits. Increased sensitivity to ionizing radiation (x-ray and gamma 
ray) can result in severe side effects from such treatments. Life expectancy is 
significantly reduced due to cancer, pulmonary disease, and infections. Variant 
A-T has a significantly milder disease course. While cerebellar ataxia can be 
absent, extrapyramidal movement disorders are common (typically dystonia and 
dystonic tremor) and most individuals have manifestations of axonal sensorimotor 
polyneuropathy. In contrast to classic A-T, immune function is generally normal, 
respiratory infections are not increased, and pulmonary disease is not a major 
feature. However, risk of developing malignancies is increased, particularly in 
premenopausal females who have an increased risk of developing breast cancer and 
hematologic malignancies.
DIAGNOSIS/TESTING: The diagnosis of A-T is established in a proband with 
suggestive findings and biallelic pathogenic variants in ATM identified by 
molecular genetic testing. Of note, newborn screening (NBS) for severe combined 
immunodeficiency (SCID) that relies on the identification of reduced T-cell 
receptor excision circle (TREC) levels in blood spots most likely identifies 
about 50% of children with classic A-T, who require immediate subspecialty 
evaluation at a center with expertise in the diagnosis of SCID, its causes, and 
its treatment.
MANAGEMENT: Treatment of manifestations: Supportive care to improve quality of 
life, maximize function, and reduce complications ideally involves 
multidisciplinary care by specialists in (pediatric) neurology, pulmonology, 
immunology, pediatrics (for children) and internal medicine (for adults), 
rehabilitation medicine, and professionals in physical therapy, speech-language 
therapy, occupational therapy, and nutrition. For specific issues care may be 
provided by specialists in oncology, medical genetics, endocrinology, 
orthopedics, dermatology, mental health, and social work. Surveillance: Routine 
evaluations by treating clinicians is necessary to monitor existing 
manifestations, the individual's response to supportive care, and the emergence 
of new manifestations. Recommended surveillance is the same for individuals with 
classic A-T and variant A-T, with the exception that individuals who do not have 
evidence of lung disease at the time of initial diagnosis do not require annual 
screening for pulmonary disease. Agents/circumstances to avoid: Rubella 
vaccination should be avoided in individuals with severe immunodeficiency as it 
can possibly increase the risk for granulomas; ionizing radiation (x-ray and 
gamma ray) is contraindicated, due to increased sensitivity; and radiation 
therapy is contraindicated because increased radiosensitivity may lead to very 
severe complications. Evaluation of relatives at risk: It is appropriate to 
offer molecular genetic testing for the familial ATM pathogenic variants to 
apparently asymptomatic older and younger at-risk relatives of an affected 
individual in order to identify as early as possible sibs with biallelic ATM 
pathogenic variants who would benefit from prompt initiation of treatment of 
manifestations of A-T, surveillance for malignancy, and awareness of 
agents/circumstances to avoid; and family members who are heterozygous for an 
ATM pathogenic variant and who would benefit from age-appropriate intensified 
surveillance for breast cancer. Therapies under investigation: Use of 
intra-erythrocyte dexamethasone; the effects of nicotinamide riboside (a form of 
vitamin B3) on ataxia scores and immunoglobulin levels; gene therapy with 
antisense oligonucleotides in a single case study; effect of allogenic 
hematopoietic stem cell transplantation on neurologic functioning.
GENETIC COUNSELING: A-T is caused by biallelic pathogenic variants in ATM and 
inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. If both parents are known to be 
heterozygous for an ATM pathogenic variant, each sib of an affected individual 
has at conception a 25% chance of inheriting biallelic pathogenic variants and 
having A-T, a 50% chance of inheriting one pathogenic variant and being 
heterozygous, and a 25% chance of inheriting neither of the familial ATM 
pathogenic variants. Although individuals heterozygous for an ATM pathogenic 
variant are not at risk for A-T, their risk of developing cancer is increased 
compared to that of the general population (in particular, heterozygous females 
have an increased risk of developing breast cancer). Once the ATM pathogenic 
variants have been identified in an affected family member, heterozygote testing 
for at-risk relatives and prenatal and preimplantation genetic testing for A-T 
are possible.

Copyright © 1993-2023, University of Washington, Seattle. GeneReviews is a 
registered trademark of the University of Washington, Seattle. All rights 
reserved.

PMID: 20301790


811. MMW Fortschr Med. 2010 Feb 11;152(6):12-4. doi: 10.1007/BF03366043.

[With the prioritization comes the two-class medicine. Injustice with the 
system].

[Article in German]

Gross H.

Comment in
    MMW Fortschr Med. 2010 Mar 25;152(12):18.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03366043
PMID: 20302171 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


812. RETRACTED ARTICLE

J Med Life. 2010 Jan-Mar;3(1):19-25.

Prognostic factors in retroperitoneal fibrosis.

Sinescu I(1), Surcel C, Mirvald C, Chibelean C, Gîngu C, Avram D, Hîrza M, Manu 
M, Lazar R, Savu C, Udrea A.

Author information:
(1)Center of Urological Surgery, Dialysis and Renal Transplantation, Fundeni 
Clinical Institute, Bucharest, Romania.

Retraction in
    J Med Life. 2012 Jun 12;5(2):246-7.

The aim of this study is to evaluate effective prognostic factors in the 
evolution of patients with retroperitoneal fibrosis and to establish the 
validity of fractal analysis in determining the disease severity in these 
patients.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: This study included 19 patients (M/F: 5/14) treated for 
idiopathic retroperitoneal fibrosis and bilateral obstructive renal failure 
between Jan 2004-Dec 2008. Patients were identified retrospectively, searching 
for patients diagnosed with IRF, after retroperitoneal biopsy or, in most cases 
the diagnosis rested on radiological findings, especially CT, with 
identification of a retroperitoneal mass, the absence of other demonstrable 
renal or ureteric disease or any other pathology that could explain the 
findings. CT was very useful in describing the retroperitoneal mass around the 
aorta and inferior vena cava, the extent of the lesion and for monitoring the 
response to surgical treatment during the follow-up. The data were evaluated 
about medical history, physical examination findings, laboratory tests (serum 
urea and creatinine, blood sugar, sodium, potassium, bicarbonate levels, serum 
pH, uric acid, haematocrit, white blood cell count), imaging methods (renal 
ultrasound, abdominal CT-scan, MRI). At admission all patients had active 
disease with obstructive renal failure and underwent bilateral ureteric stenting 
in order to normalize the BUN levels. After normalizing of BUN levels, 
ureterolysis and omental wrapping was performed. Postoperatively, ureteric 
stents were removed after 1 month and remission of renal disfunction was 
obtained in approximately 5 months (range 2-10 months). All patients were 
followed for at least 1 year. Patients were regularly checked every 3 months.
RESULTS: Of the 19 patients, there were 5 men and 14 women. The median age at 
diagnosis of RF was 50 years (range 42-64 years). The most frequent presenting 
symptoms were back or abdominal pain, weakness, weight loss, oligoanuria, 
arterial hypertension and mild fever. The duration of symptoms before diagnosis 
ranged from 6 to 18 months. At presentation all patients had active disease, 
presenting renal dysfunction with a median serum creatinine of 5.18 mg/dl (range 
1-15.4 mg/dl). Most of the patients had moderate bilateral hydronephrosis (2nd 
degree hydronephrosis). In our study, all patients had excellent prognosis, with 
full recovery of renal function in 78% of cases (15 patients). The fractal 
dimension of the fibrosis mass contour correlates with level of renal function 
impairment. Even more, the fractal dimension seems to slightly variate between 
CT evaluations (1.30 +/- 0.1), suggesting a non aggressive pattern of extension 
of the fibrotic mass characteristic for benign lesions.
CONCLUSIONS: The imaging parameters did not predict the disease severity, except 
the increase in fractal dimension of fibrosis surface area. Efficacy of 
bilateral ureteric stenting in improving renal function is limited in most of 
the cases. Dispite the level of renal function impairment at admission, full 
recovery can be achieved after bilateral ureteric stenting/nephrostomy and 
ureterolisis.

PMCID: PMC3019032
PMID: 20302193 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


813. Health Qual Life Outcomes. 2010 Mar 19;8:30. doi: 10.1186/1477-7525-8-30.

Quality of life measurement in women with cervical cancer: implications for 
Chinese cervical cancer survivors.

Zeng YC(1), Ching SS, Loke AY.

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Hong Kong, PR China. 
chloezengyc@hotmail.co.uk

BACKGROUND: Women with cervical cancer now have relatively good 5-year survival 
rates. Better survival rates have driven the paradigm in cancer care from a 
medical illness model to a wellness model, which is concerned with the quality 
of women's lives as well as the length of survival. Thus, the assessment of 
quality of life among cervical cancer survivors is increasingly paramount for 
healthcare professionals. The purposes of this review were to describe existing 
validated quality of life instruments used in cervical cancer survivors, and to 
reveal the implications of quality of life measurement for Chinese cervical 
cancer survivors.
METHODS: A literature search of five electronic databases was conducted using 
the terms cervical/cervix cancer, quality of life, survivors, survivorship, 
measurement, and instruments. Articles published in either English or Chinese 
from January 2000 to June 2009 were searched. Only those adopting an established 
quality of life instrument for use in cervical cancer survivors were included.
RESULTS: A total of 11 validated multidimensional quality of life instruments 
were identified from 41 articles. These instruments could be classified into 
four categories: generic, cancer-specific, cancer site-specific and cancer 
survivor-specific instruments. With internal consistency varying from 0.68-0.99, 
the test-retest reliability ranged from 0.60-0.95 based on the test of the 
Pearson coefficient. One or more types of validity supported the construct 
validity. Although all these instruments met the minimum requirements of 
reliability and validity, the original versions of these instruments were mainly 
in English.
CONCLUSION: Selection of an instrument should consider the purpose of 
investigation, take its psychometric properties into account, and consider the 
instrument's origin and comprehensiveness. As quality of life can be affected by 
culture, studies assessing the quality of life of cervical cancer survivors in 
China or other non-English speaking countries should choose or develop 
instruments relevant to their own cultural context. There is a need to develop a 
comprehensive quality of life instrument for Chinese cervical cancer survivors 
across the whole survivorship, including immediately after diagnosis and for 
short- (less than 5 years) and long-term (more than 5 years) survivorship.

DOI: 10.1186/1477-7525-8-30
PMCID: PMC2852383
PMID: 20302624 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


814. Cancer Treat Rev. 2010 Oct;36(6):468-76. doi: 10.1016/j.ctrv.2010.02.018.
Epub  2010 Mar 29.

The cost-effectiveness of particle therapy in non-small cell lung cancer: 
exploring decision uncertainty and areas for future research.

Grutters JP(1), Pijls-Johannesma M, Ruysscher DD, Peeters A, Reimoser S, 
Severens JL, Lambin P, Joore MA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology (MAASTRO), GROW-School for Oncology and 
Developmental Biology, Maastricht University Medical Centre, P.O. Box 1588, 6201 
BN Maastricht, The Netherlands. janneke.grutters@maastro.nl

PURPOSE: To review and synthesize all available evidence in order to explore the 
cost-effectiveness of particle therapy (carbon-ions, protons) compared to the 
best current treatments for non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC), and the value of 
additional research. The present study focuses on stage I NSCLC, as no data is 
available for more advanced stages.
METHODS: A probabilistic decision-analytic Markov model was constructed to 
synthesize all available evidence. Comparative treatments were carbon-ions, 
protons, conventional radiotherapy (CRT) and stereotactic radiotherapy (SBRT) 
for inoperable stage I NSCLC; and carbon-ions and SBRT for operable stage I 
NSCLC. The expected value of perfect information (EVPI) was calculated to 
support research decisions.
RESULTS: For inoperable stage I NSCLC, carbon-ion therapy costed euro 67.257 per 
quality-adjusted-life-year gained compared to SBRT. Both treatments dominated 
protons and CRT. Considerable uncertainty surrounded these results, resulting in 
a high EVPI. For operable stage I NSCLC SBRT dominated carbon-ion therapy.
CONCLUSIONS: Due to the considerable uncertainty in stage I NSCLC, and the lack 
of data on more advanced stages, it is recommended not to adopt particle therapy 
as standard treatment in NSCLC yet. More evidence is needed to reduce the 
decision uncertainty and to support evidence-based treatment decisions. It might 
be worthwhile to invest in a particle facility for clinical research. Future 
research should also weigh the investment risk, value of information and costs 
of delay.

2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ctrv.2010.02.018
PMID: 20303217 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


815. Med Hypotheses. 2010 Aug;75(2):214-7. doi: 10.1016/j.mehy.2010.02.024. Epub
2010  Mar 29.

To be, or not to be obese - that's the challenge: a hypothesis on the cortical 
inhibition of the hypothalamus and its therapeutical consequences.

Kreier F(1).

Author information:
(1)Ksmedici Ltd., Bijlmerdreef 939, 1103 TW Amsterdam, The Netherlands. 
kreier@ksmedici.nl

Today, obesity is the most urgent unsolved medical problem, with the threat of a 
decreased life expectancy rate for the first time in medical history. Many obese 
subjects try to lose weight by dieting and exercising, without success on a long 
term basis. The only therapy with some effect is bariatric surgery with the 
impact of sustainable adverse effects only suitable in morbid obesity. Why are 
the therapies to treat obesity not working? Within the last years, we have 
become more aware of the role of the brain in energy homeostasis. The three main 
players within the brain controlling our weight are the cortex for cognition, 
hypothalamus for vital body functions and limbic-reward system for emotions. One 
hypothesizes that the failure of the cortex to inhibit the hypothalamus is the 
main cause of obesity. The evolutionary old hypothalamus constantly seeks for a 
positive energy balance, always in endeavor to avoid any energy shortage in the 
future. The hypothalamus is executing its tasks in a parallel mode. It can 
coordinate a set of vital routines independently, yet simultaneously. For e.g., 
energy balance, salt balance, body temperature and sleep are executed even in a 
coma. The hypothalamus is primitive but stable. The cortex in humans is, 
compared to rodents, much bigger and more complex, while the hypothalamus bears 
more similarities between these two species. The cortex in humans is 
evolutionary younger and represents higher cognition, an unique human feature. 
In contrast to the hypothalamus, the cortex focuses on one problem at a time, 
thus functioning on an attention-based manner. Due to this serial mode, the 
cortex uses a large part of its capacity for one problem at a time. Therefore, 
it can solve more complex calculations than the hypothalamus by thinking about 
one problem after another. It is even strong enough to veto the hypothalamus, if 
necessary. If the concentration on weight loss is distorted, the hypothalamus is 
free of inhibition by the cortex, and the subject will gain weight again. It is 
suggested that this is why diets do not work in the long term. In anorexic 
patients, the cortex is fully occupied to control the hypothalamus resulting in 
extreme weight loss. In obese subjects, the cortex is less disciplined and the 
hypothalamus will take control again to stimulate positive energy balance. From 
this viewpoint, the limbic-reward system interacts both with the hypothalamus 
and the cortex to achieve demands by emotional motivation. The last part of this 
paper describes a therapeutic strategy based on this hypothesis. We propose a 
dual approach to fight obesity. First, interventions should be implemented that 
remind the cortex to control the hypothalamus and second, to stimulate 
physiological feedback to the hypothalamus.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mehy.2010.02.024
PMID: 20303218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


816. Bone. 2010 Jul;47(1):34-40. doi: 10.1016/j.bone.2010.03.009. Epub 2010 Mar
18.

Potential cost-effectiveness of denosumab for the treatment of postmenopausal 
osteoporotic women.

Hiligsmann M(1), Reginster JY.

Author information:
(1)HEC-ULg Management School, University of Liège, Liège, Belgium. 
m.hiligsmann@ulg.ac.be

Denosumab has recently been shown to be safe and to significantly reduce the 
risk of vertebral, hip and non-vertebral fractures in the "Fracture REduction 
Evaluation of Denosumab in Osteoporosis every 6Months" (FREEDOM) Trial. Besides 
the clinical profile of a new drug, it becomes increasingly important to assess 
whether the drug represents good value for money. This study aims to examine the 
potential cost-effectiveness of denosumab in the treatment of postmenopausal 
osteoporotic women. An updated version of a validated Markov microsimulation 
model was used to estimate the cost (euro2009) per quality-adjusted life-year 
(QALY) gained of a 3-year denosumab treatment compared with no treatment. The 
model was populated with cost and epidemiological data for Belgium from a 
health-care perspective and the base-case population was defined from the 
FREEDOM Trial. The effect of denosumab after treatment cessation was 
conservatively assumed to decline linearly over 1year. Uncertainty was 
investigated using one-way and probabilistic sensitivity analyses. In 
particular, additional analyses were performed in populations (over 60 years) 
where osteoporosis medications are currently reimbursed in many European 
countries, i.e. with bone mineral density (BMD) T-score < or = -2.5 or prevalent 
vertebral fracture. In the base-case analysis, the cost per QALY gained of 
denosumab compared with no treatment was estimated at euro28,441. This value 
decreased to euro15,532 and to euro11,603 for women with a BMD T-score of -2.5 
or prevalent vertebral fracture, respectively. Additional analyses showed that 
the cost-effectiveness of denosumab fall below commonly accepted threshold of 
euro 30,000per QALY gained for women with a BMD T-score < or = -2.5 or prevalent 
vertebral fracture, over the entire age range examined (60-80 years). The 
results were robust under a wide range of plausible assumptions. In conclusion, 
this study suggests, on the basis of currently available data, that denosumab is 
cost-effective compared with no treatment for postmenopausal Belgian women with 
low bone mass and who are similar to patients included in the FREEDOM Trial. In 
addition, denosumab was found to be cost-effective in population currently 
reimbursed in Europe with T-score < or = -2.5 or prevalent vertebral fracture, 
aged 60 years and above. Additional data are needed on the relative 
cost-effectiveness compared with other anti-osteoporotic agents and on the 
long-term safety of denosumab.

2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bone.2010.03.009
PMID: 20303422 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


817. Arch Psychiatr Nurs. 2010 Apr;24(2):104-13. doi: 10.1016/j.apnu.2009.05.001.

A naturalistic inquiry of registered nurses' perspectives and expectations of 
psychodynamic therapeutic care in acute psychiatric inpatient facilities.

Awty P(1), Welch A, Kuhn L.

Author information:
(1)RMIT University, School of Nursing and Midwifery, Bundoora, VIC, Australia. 
pawty@bigpond.net.au

Within contemporary inpatient mental health nursing practice, the psychodynamic 
model of care considered previously to be central to the nurse-patient 
relationship now seems a radical concept. It appears to exist only within 
primary care facilities and public health care practice settings. This 
naturalistic inquiry aimed to explicate mental health nurses' perspectives and 
expectations of providing psychodynamic therapeutic care in acute inpatient 
psychiatric facilities. Ten registered nurses working in acute inpatient mental 
health facilities were interviewed. Five themes emerged: a career for life, 
relating in a psychodynamic manner, swimming against the current, adopting a 
position of difference, and hopeful expectancy.

Copyright 2010. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.apnu.2009.05.001
PMID: 20303450 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


818. J Shoulder Elbow Surg. 2010 Apr;19(3):325-34. doi:
10.1016/j.jse.2009.11.057.

Cost effectiveness analysis of hemiarthroplasty and total shoulder arthroplasty.

Mather RC 3rd(1), Watters TS, Orlando LA, Bolognesi MP, Moorman CT 3rd.

Author information:
(1)Division of Orthopaedic Surgery, Department of Surgery, Duke University 
Medical Center, Durham, NC 27710, USA. mathe016@mc.duke.edu

BACKGROUND: Total shoulder arthroplasty (TSA) and hemiarthroplasty (HA) are two 
viable surgical treatment options for glenohumeral osteoarthritis. Recent 
systematic reviews and randomized trials suggest that TSA, while more costly 
initially, may have superior outcomes with regard to pain, function and quality 
of life with lower revision rates. This study compared the cost-effectiveness of 
TSA with HA.
METHODS: A Markov decision model was constructed for a cost-utility analysis of 
TSA compared to HA in a cohort of 64-year-old patients. Outcome probabilities 
and effectiveness were derived from the literature. Costs were estimated from 
the societal perspective using the national average Medicare reimbursement for 
the procedures in 2008 US dollars. Effectiveness was expressed in 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) gained. Principal outcome measures were 
average incremental costs, incremental effectiveness, incremental QALYs, and net 
health benefits.
RESULTS: In the base case, HA resulted in a lower number of average QALYs gained 
at a higher average cost to society and was, therefore, dominated by the TSA 
strategy for the treatment of glenohumeral osteoarthritis. The cost 
effectiveness ratio for TSA and HA were $957/QALY and $1,194/QALY respectively. 
Sensitivity analysis revealed that if the utility of TSA is equal to, or 
revision rate lower than HA, TSA continues to be a dominant strategy.
CONCLUSION: Total shoulder arthroplasty with a cemented glenoid is a 
cost-effective procedure, resulting in greater utility for the patient at a 
lower overall cost to the payer. These findings suggest that TSA is the 
preferred treatment for certain populations from both a patient and payer 
perspective.

2010 Journal of Shoulder and Elbow Surgery Board of Trustees. Published by 
Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jse.2009.11.057
PMID: 20303459 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


819. Nutr Metab Cardiovasc Dis. 2010 May;20(4):284-94. doi: 
10.1016/j.numecd.2009.12.007. Epub 2010 Mar 19.

Olive oil and health: summary of the II international conference on olive oil 
and health consensus report, Jaén and Córdoba (Spain) 2008.

López-Miranda J(1), Pérez-Jiménez F, Ros E, De Caterina R, Badimón L, Covas MI, 
Escrich E, Ordovás JM, Soriguer F, Abiá R, de la Lastra CA, Battino M, Corella 
D, Chamorro-Quirós J, Delgado-Lista J, Giugliano D, Esposito K, Estruch R, 
Fernandez-Real JM, Gaforio JJ, La Vecchia C, Lairon D, López-Segura F, Mata P, 
Menéndez JA, Muriana FJ, Osada J, Panagiotakos DB, Paniagua JA, Pérez-Martinez 
P, Perona J, Peinado MA, Pineda-Priego M, Poulsen HE, Quiles JL, Ramírez-Tortosa 
MC, Ruano J, Serra-Majem L, Solá R, Solanas M, Solfrizzi V, de la Torre-Fornell 
R, Trichopoulou A, Uceda M, Villalba-Montoro JM, Villar-Ortiz JR, Visioli F, 
Yiannakouris N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Reina Sofia University Hospital, School of Medicine, 
Cordoba, Spain. jlopezmir@uco.es

Olive oil (OO) is the most representative food of the traditional Mediterranean 
Diet (MedDiet). Increasing evidence suggests that monounsaturated fatty acids 
(MUFA) as a nutrient, OO as a food, and the MedDiet as a food pattern are 
associated with a decreased risk of cardiovascular disease, obesity, metabolic 
syndrome, type 2 diabetes and hypertension. A MedDiet rich in OO and OO per se 
has been shown to improve cardiovascular risk factors, such as lipid profiles, 
blood pressure, postprandial hyperlipidemia, endothelial dysfunction, oxidative 
stress, and antithrombotic profiles. Some of these beneficial effects can be 
attributed to the OO minor components. Therefore, the definition of the MedDiet 
should include OO. Phenolic compounds in OO have shown antioxidant and 
anti-inflammatory properties, prevent lipoperoxidation, induce favorable changes 
of lipid profile, improve endothelial function, and disclose antithrombotic 
properties. Observational studies from Mediterranean cohorts have suggested that 
dietary MUFA may be protective against age-related cognitive decline and 
Alzheimer's disease. Recent studies consistently support the concept that the 
OO-rich MedDiet is compatible with healthier aging and increased longevity. In 
countries where the population adheres to the MedDiet, such as Spain, Greece and 
Italy, and OO is the principal source of fat, rates of cancer incidence are 
lower than in northern European countries. Experimental and human cellular 
studies have provided new evidence on the potential protective effect of OO on 
cancer. Furthermore, results of case-control and cohort studies suggest that 
MUFA intake including OO is associated with a reduction in cancer risk (mainly 
breast, colorectal and prostate cancers).

Copyright 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.numecd.2009.12.007
PMID: 20303720 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


820. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 2010 Apr;39(4):460-71. doi: 
10.1016/j.ejvs.2009.12.014. Epub 2010 Mar 20.

Review of direct anatomical open surgical management of atherosclerotic 
aorto-iliac occlusive disease.

Chiu KW(1), Davies RS, Nightingale PG, Bradbury AW, Adam DJ.

Author information:
(1)University of Birmingham, Department of Vascular Surgery, Heart of England 
NHS Foundation Trust, Netherwood House, Solihull Hospital, Birmingham, UK.

BACKGROUND: Aortofemoral bypass(AFB), iliofemoral bypass(IFB), and aortoiliac 
endarterectomy(AIE) are the three most common techniques for anatomical open 
surgical revascularisation for patients with aorto-iliac occlusive 
disease(AIOD), but the optimal method of reconstruction is unknown.
AIMS: To review and compare mortality, morbidity and short- and long-term 
patency rates for AFB, IFB and AIE in patients with AIOD reported in the English 
language literature
METHODS: A MEDLINE(1970-2007) and Cochrane Library search for articles relating 
to AFB, IFB, AIE and AIOD was undertaken. Studies were included if: a) patency 
rates based on life-tables were available, and b) patient/study characteristics 
were reported.
RESULTS: 29 studies(5738 patients) for AFB, 11 studies(778 patients) for IFB and 
11 studies(1490 patients) for AIE were included. Operative mortality was 4.1% 
for AFB, 2.7% for IFB and 2.7% for AIE (p<0.0001). Systemic morbidity was 16.0% 
for AFB, 18.9% for IFB and 12.5% for AIE (p<0.05). Overall 5-year primary 
patency rates were 86.3%, 85.3% and 88.3% for AFB, IFB and AIE, respectively 
(p=NS).
CONCLUSION: Aorto-iliac endarterectomy was associated with significantly lower 
peri-operative morbidity and mortality rates compared with bypass grafting. All 
three techniques were equally effective in terms of long-term patency.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejvs.2009.12.014
PMID: 20303805 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


821. Exp Gerontol. 2010 Jun;45(6):435-41. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2010.03.010. Epub
2010  Mar 19.

Ovarian status influenced the rate of body-weight change but not the total 
amount of body-weight gained or lost in female CBA/J mice.

Mason JB(1), Cargill SL, Anderson GB, Carey JR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Animal Science, University of California, Davis, USA. 
masonjef@vet.upenn.edu <masonjef@vet.upenn.edu>

Previously we reported that prepubertally ovariectomized mice that received 
young, transplanted ovaries at a postreproductive age displayed a 40% increase 
in life expectancy. To study this increase in life expectancy in greater detail, 
prepubertally ovariectomized and ovary-intact CBA/J mice underwent ovarian 
transplantation at 11 months with 60-day-old ovaries or a sham surgery. Life 
span was significantly increased in transplant recipients. Body-weight changes 
of mice in each group were measured from the time of surgery (11 months) to 
death. Neither ovariectomy nor ovarian transplantation influenced the amount of 
peak body-weight attained or body-weight retained at death. However, the time 
(days) to peak body-weight was decreased by ovariectomy and ovarian transplant 
recipients displayed a trend toward an increase in time to peak weight. In 
addition, ovarian transplantation decreased the rate of weight loss to death. 
These results demonstrate that ovarian status, examined by means of ovariectomy 
and ovarian transplantation, clearly influenced the rate of weight change, but 
not the total amount of weight gain or loss in female mice.

2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2010.03.010
PMCID: PMC2862801
PMID: 20304041 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


822. Nephrol Dial Transplant. 2010 Aug;25(8):2691-5. doi: 10.1093/ndt/gfq116.
Epub  2010 Mar 19.

Microemboli, developed during haemodialysis, pass the lung barrier and may cause 
ischaemic lesions in organs such as the brain.

Forsberg U(1), Jonsson P, Stegmayr C, Stegmayr B.

Author information:
(1)Medicin-Geriatriska Kliniken, Skelleftea lasarett, Lasarettsvagen 29, 
Skelleftea, Sweden. ulf.forsberg@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: Chronic haemodialysis (HD) may relieve some medical problems of 
terminal uraemia, but the life expectancy of patients is still significantly 
shortened, and there is a greatly increased morbidity. This includes pulmonary 
morbidity and chronic central nervous system (CNS) abnormalities. Previous 
studies have shown that a considerable amount of air microbubbles emanate within 
the blood lines of the dialysis device and pass the air detector without 
sounding an alarm. The aim of this study was to investigate whether microemboli 
can pass to the patient and whether they could be detected in the carotid 
artery.
METHODS: A total of 54 patients on chronic HD (16 with central dialysis 
catheter) were investigated with an ultrasound detector (Hatteland, Røyken, 
Norway) for the presence of microemboli at the arteriovenous (AV) fistula/graft 
and at the common carotid artery before and during HD. Measurements were taken 
for 2 and 5 min, respectively. Non-parametric paired statistics were used 
(Wilcoxon).
RESULTS: The median number (range) and mean +/- SD of microembolic signals 
detected at the AV access site before commencing dialysis and during HD were 0 
(0-3) and 0.2+/- 0.5 versus 4 (0-85) and 13.5 +/- 20 (P = 0.000); at the carotid 
artery, 1 (0-14) and 1.7 +/- 2.9 versus 2 (0-36) and 3.5 +/- 5.8 (P = 0.008).
CONCLUSIONS: The infused and returning fluid from HD devices contains air 
microbubbles that enter the patient without triggering any alarms. These small 
emboli pass the lung and may cause ischaemic lesions in organs supported by the 
arterial circuit, such as the brain.

DOI: 10.1093/ndt/gfq116
PMID: 20305135 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


823. Biosci Trends. 2010 Feb;4(1):9-16.

Rapid increase in Japanese life expectancy after World War II.

Sugiura Y(1), Ju YS, Yasuoka J, Jimba M.

Author information:
(1)Bureau of International Cooperation, International Medical Center of Japan, 
Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, Tokyo, Japan. yasugiura@gmail.com

Japanese life expectancy increased by about 13.7 years during the first decade 
after World War II, despite the country's post-war poverty. Although it is known 
that medical progress explains part of this increase, roles of non-medical 
factors have not been systematically studied. This study hypothesizes that 
non-medical factors, in addition to medical factors, are associated with the 
rapid increase in life expectancy in Japan. We analyzed the time trends of 
potential explanatory factors and used regression analysis with historical data 
from the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications' Historical Statistics 
of Japan during the period between 1946 and 1983. Time trends analysis revealed 
that the rapid increase in life expectancy preceded the dramatic growth of per 
capita Gross Domestic Product (GDP) by 10 years. In education, the nearly 
universal enrollment in elementary schools and increased advancement to upper 
secondary schools for both sexes were associated with better health. Regarding 
legislation, 32 health laws were passed in the first decade after the war and 
these laws were associated with improved health. Using regression analysis, we 
found that the enrollment rate in elementary schools, the number of health laws, 
and expansion of community-based activity staff were significantly associated 
with the increased life expectancy during the first decade after World War II. 
To conclude, in addition to medical factors, non-medical factors applied across 
the country, particularly education, community-based activities and legislation 
were associated with the rapid increase in Japanese life expectancy after World 
War II.

PMID: 20305339 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


824. Rev Bras Cir Cardiovasc. 2009 Oct-Dec;24(4):453-62. doi: 
10.1590/s0102-76382009000500005.

Does the coronary disease increase the hospital mortality in patients with 
aortic stenosis undergoing valve replacement?

[Article in English, Portuguese]

Oliveira Júnior Jde L(1), Fiorelli AI, Santos RH, Pomerantzeff PA, Dallan LA, 
Stolf NA.

Author information:
(1)INCOR, HC, FM, USP. limacirurgia@uol.com.br

OBJECTIVES: With the increase in life expectancy occurred in recent decades, it 
has been noted the concomitant increase in the prevalence of aortic stenosis and 
degenerative disease of atherosclerotic coronary artery. This study aims to 
evaluate the influence of atherosclerotic coronary artery disease in patients 
with critical aortic stenosis undergoing isolated or combined implant valve 
prosthesis and coronary artery by pass grafting.
METHODS: In the period of January 2001 to March 2006, there were analyzed 448 
patients undergoing isolated implant aortic valve prosthesis (Group I) and 167 
patients undergoing aortic valve prosthesis implant combined with coronary 
artery bypass grafting (Group II). Pre- and intra-operative variables elected 
for analysis were: age, gender, body mass index, stroke, diabetes mellitus, 
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, rheumatic fever, hypertension, 
endocarditis, acute myocardial infarction, smoking, Fraction of the left 
ventricular ejection, critical atherosclerotic coronary artery disease, chronic 
atrial fibrillation, aortic valve operation prior (conservative), functional 
class of congestive heart failure, value serum creatinine, total cholesterol, 
size of the prosthesis used, length and number of distal anastomoses held in 
myocardial revascularization, duration of cardiopulmonary bypass and aortic 
clamping time. The statistical study employed invariant and multivariate 
analysis.
RESULTS: Hospital mortality was 14.3% (64 deaths) in Group I, and 14.5% (58 
deaths) in patients with atherosclerotic coronary artery disease associated 
criticism (Group IB) and 12.8% (six deaths) in which had this association (Group 
IA). Hospital mortality in Group II was 17.6% (29 deaths), and 16.1% (20 deaths) 
in patients undergoing implantation of prosthetic aortic valve combined to 
complete myocardial revascularization (Group II) and 20.9% (nine deaths) in the 
myocardial revascularization with incomplete (Group IIB).
CONCLUSIONS: In patients undergoing implant isolated from aortic valve 
prosthesis, the presence of atherosclerotic coronary artery disease associated 
critical in at least two arteries, influenced the hospital mortality. In 
patients undergoing surgical treatment combined the number of coronary arteries 
with critical atherosclerotic disease and extent of coronary artery bypass 
grafting (complete or incomplete), did not affect the hospital mortality, but 
the realization of more than three anastomoses in the distal myocardial 
revascularization interfered.

DOI: 10.1590/s0102-76382009000500005
PMID: 20305917 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


825. Biogerontology. 2010 Aug;11(4):475-82. doi: 10.1007/s10522-010-9270-y. Epub
2010  Mar 20.

Differential expression of Toll-like receptor 2 and 4 on peritoneal leukocyte 
populations from long-lived and non-selected old female mice.

Arranz L(1), De Castro NM, Baeza I, De la Fuente M.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Fisiología, Universidad Complutense, Madrid, España.

The aim of the present study was to determine Toll-like receptor (TLR)-2 and 
TLR-4 membrane expression on the major peritoneal leukocyte populations 
throughout the aging process, including subjects that had achieved exceptional 
longevity. ICR (CD1) female mice of different ages: adult (44 +/- 4 weeks), old 
(69 +/- 4), very old (92 +/- 4) and extreme long-lived (125 +/- 4), were used. 
Peritoneal leukocytes were collected, and percentages of CD11b, CD11c, CD3CD4, 
CD3CD8 and CD19 cells present in the samples were analysed, as well as the 
expression of TLR-2 and TLR-4 on them, by flow cytometry. The results showed 
increased TLR expression on CD11b+ cells from animals at very old ages and 
especially in the extreme long-lived. Old subjects showed lower percentage of 
CD11c+ cells, but no age-related changes were found in the TLR expression on 
these cells. TLRs on CD3CD4+ and CD3CD8+ cells from very old animals were 
increased as compared to the adults, whereas long-lived subjects showed 
preserved levels. However, TLR expression on CD19+ cells was higher in 
long-lived individuals with respect to subjects at all the other younger ages. 
These data suggest that differential age-related changes in the expression of 
TLR-2 and TLR-4 on leukocyte populations from long-lived and non-selected 
younger old mice could contribute to a different age-related immune remodelling 
in long-lived subjects, which could allow better preservation of their immune 
responses.

DOI: 10.1007/s10522-010-9270-y
PMID: 20306223 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


826. Curr Genet. 2010 Jun;56(3):225-35. doi: 10.1007/s00294-010-0295-1. Epub 2010
Mar  21.

Deletion of PaAif2 and PaAmid2, two genes encoding mitochondrial AIF-like 
oxidoreductases of Podospora anserina, leads to increased stress tolerance and 
lifespan extension.

Brust D(1), Hamann A, Osiewacz HD.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Molecular Biosciences, Johann Wolfgang Goethe University, 
Frankfurt, Germany.

Wild-type strains of the ascomycete Podospora anserina are characterized by a 
limited lifespan. Mitochondria play a central role in this ageing process 
raising the question of whether apoptosis-like processes, which are also 
connected to mitochondrial function, are involved in the control of the final 
stage in the fungal life cycle. While a role of two metacaspases in apoptosis 
and lifespan control was recently demonstrated in P. anserina, virtually nothing 
is known about the function of the protein family of apoptosis-inducing factors 
(AIFs). Here we report data about proteins belonging to this family. We 
demonstrate that the cytosolic members PaAIF1 and PaAMID1 do not affect 
lifespan. In contrast, loss of PaAIF2 and PaAMID2, which both were localized to 
mitochondria, are characterized by a significantly increased ROS tolerance and a 
prolonged lifespan. In addition, deletion of PaAmid2 severely affects 
sporogenesis. These data identify components of a caspase-independent molecular 
pathway to be involved in developmental processes and in the induction of 
programmed cell death in the senescent stage of P. anserina.

DOI: 10.1007/s00294-010-0295-1
PMID: 20306265 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
