

963. GMS Health Technol Assess. 2009 May 12;5:Doc06. doi: 10.3205/hta000068.

Prognostic value, clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of high 
sensitivity C-reactive protein as a marker in primary prevention of major 
cardiac events.

Schnell-Inderst P(1), Schwarzer R, Göhler A, Grandi N, Grabein K, Stollenwerk B, 
Klauß V, Wasem J, Siebert U.

Author information:
(1)Lehrstuhl für Medizinmanagement, Universität Duisburg, Campus Essen, Essen, 
Deutschland.

BACKGROUND: In a substantial portion of patients (= 25%) with coronary heart 
disease (CHD), a myocardial infarction or sudden cardiac death without prior 
symptoms is the first manifestation of disease. The use of new risk predictors 
for CHD such as the high-sensitivity C-reactive Protein (hs-CRP) in addition to 
established risk factors could improve prediction of CHD. As a consequence of 
the altered risk assessment, modified preventive actions could reduce the number 
of cardiac death and non-fatal myocardial infarction.
RESEARCH QUESTION: Does the additional information gained through the 
measurement of hs-CRP in asymptomatic patients lead to a clinically relevant 
improvement in risk prediction as compared to risk prediction based on 
traditional risk factors and is this cost-effective?
METHODS: A literature search of the electronic databases of the German Institute 
of Medical Documentation and Information (DIMDI) was conducted. Selection, data 
extraction, assessment of the study-quality and synthesis of information was 
conducted according to the methods of evidence-based medicine.
RESULTS: Eight publications about predictive value, one publication on the 
clinical efficacy and three health-economic evaluations were included. In the 
seven study populations of the prediction studies, elevated CRP-levels were 
almost always associated with a higher risk of cardiovascular events and 
non-fatal myocardial infarctions or cardiac death and severe cardiovascular 
events. The effect estimates (odds ratio (OR), relative risk (RR), hazard ratio 
(HR)), once adjusted for traditional risk factors, demonstrated a moderate, 
independent association between hs-CRP and cardiac and cardiovascular events 
that fell in the range of 0.7 to 2.47. In six of the seven studies, a moderate 
increase in the area under the curve (AUC) could be detected by adding hs-CRP as 
a predictor to regression models in addition to established risk factors though 
in three cases this was not statistically significant. The difference [in the 
AUC] between the models with and without hs-CRP fell between 0.00 and 0.023 with 
a median of 0.003. A decision-analytic modeling study reported a gain in 
life-expectancy for those using statin therapy for populations with elevated 
hs-CRP levels and normal lipid levels as compared to statin therapy for those 
with elevated lipid levels (approximately 6.6 months gain in life-expectancy for 
58 year olds). Two decision-analytic models (three publications) on 
cost-effectiveness reported incremental cost-effectiveness ratios between Euro 
8,700 and 50,000 per life year gained for the German context and between 52,000 
and 708,000 for the US context. The empirical input data for the model is highly 
uncertain.
CONCLUSION: No sufficient evidence is available to support the notion that 
hs-CRP-values should be measured during the global risk assessment for CAD or 
cardiovascular disease in addition to the traditional risk factors. The 
additional measurement of the hs-CRP-level increases the incremental predictive 
value of the risk prediction. It has not yet been clarified whether this 
increase is clinically relevant resulting in reduction of cardiovascular 
morbidity and mortality. For people with medium cardiovascular risk (5 to 20% in 
ten years) additional measurement of hs-CRP seems most likely to be clinical 
relevant to support the decision as to whether or not additional statin therapy 
should be initiated for primary prevention. Statin therapy can reduce the 
occurrence of cardiovascular events for asymptomatic individuals with normal 
lipid and elevated hs-CRP levels. However, this is not enough to provide 
evidence for a clinical benefit of hs-CRP-screening. The cost-effectiveness of 
general hs-CRP-screening as well as screening among only those with normal lipid 
levels remains unknown at present.

HINTERGRUND: Bei einem erheblichen Anteil der Patienten (= 25%) mit koronarer 
Herzkrankheit (KHK) stellt ein Herzinfarkt oder der plötzliche Herztod ohne 
vorausgehende Symptome die Erstmanifestation der Erkrankung dar. Eine Verwendung 
von neuen Risikomarkern für die KHK wie die des hochsensitiven C-reaktiven 
Proteins (hs-CRP) zusätzlich zu den bekannten Risikofaktoren könnte eine bessere 
Vorhersage der KHK ermöglichen. In Folge der veränderten Risikoeinschätzung 
könnten modifizierte Präventionsmaßnahmen zu einer Verminderung von kardialen 
Todesfällen und nichttödlichen Herzinfarkten führen.
FRAGESTELLUNG: Führt die zusätzliche Information durch die Messung des hs-CRP 
bei asymptomatischen Personen zu einer klinisch bedeutsamen Verbesserung der 
Risikoprädiktion gegenüber der Risikoprädiktion mit den traditionellen 
Risikofaktoren und ist der Einsatz von hs-CRP kosteneffektiv?
METHODIK: Es wurde eine systematische Literaturrecherche in den elektronischen 
Datenbanken des Deutschen Instituts für Medizinische Dokumentation und 
Information (DIMDI) durchgeführt. Die Selektion, Datenextraktion, Bewertung der 
Studienqualität und die Informationssynthese der identifizierten Literatur wurde 
nach den Methoden der evidenzbasierten Medizin durchgeführt.
ERGEBNISSE: Es wurden acht Publikationen zur prädiktiven Wertigkeit, eine 
Publikation zur klinischen Effektivität und drei gesundheitsökonomische 
Modellierungen eingeschlossen. In den sieben Studienpopulationen der 
Prädiktionsstudien waren erhöhte hs-CRP-Spiegel fast durchgängig mit einem 
erhöhten Risiko für ein kardiovaskuläres Ereignis bzw. für einen nichttödlichen 
Myokardinfarkt oder einen kardialen Tod bzw. schweren kardiovaskulären 
Ereignissen assoziiert. Die gegenüber den traditionellen Risikofaktoren 
adjustierten Effektschätzer zeigten eine moderate unabhängige Assoziation 
zwischen hs-CRP und kardialen bzw. kardiovaskulären Ereignissen mit 
Effektschätzern (Odds ratio (OR), relativem Risiko (RR) oder Hazard ratio (HR)) 
zwischen 0,7 und 2,47. Bei sechs von sieben Studien war durch das Hinzufügen von 
hs-CRP als Prädiktor zu den Regressionsmodellen zusätzlich zu den etablierten 
Risikofaktoren in geringem Ausmaß ein Anstieg der Area under the Curve (AUC) zu 
beobachten, in drei Fällen ohne statistische Signifikanz. Die Differenzen der 
Modelle mit und ohne hs-CRP lagen zwischen 0,00 und 0,027 mit einem Median von 
0,003. Eine entscheidungsanalytische Modellierung ergab einen vergleichbaren 
Gewinn an Lebenserwartung nach einer Statintherapie bei erhöhtem hs-CRP- und 
normalem Lipidspiegel wie bei einer Statintherapie nach erhöhtem Lipidspiegel 
(ca. 6,6 Monate bei 58-Jährigen). Zwei entscheidungsanalytische Modelle (drei 
Publikationen) berechneten inkrementelle Kosten-Effektivitäts-Relationen 
zwischen 8.700 und 50.000 Euro pro gewonnenem Lebensjahr (deutscher Kontext) und 
zwischen 52.000 bis 708.000 Euro pro gewonnenem Lebensjahr (US-amerikanischer 
Kontext). Die empirische Datenbasis der Modelle ist mit großer Unsicherheit 
behaftet.
SCHLUSSFOLGERUNGEN: Es liegt derzeit keine ausreichende Evidenz dafür vor, dass 
bei der globalen Risikobestimmung für eine KHK zusätzlich zu den traditionellen 
Risikofaktoren der hs-CRP-Wert bestimmt werden sollte. Eine zusätzliche 
Bestimmung des hs-CRP-Wertes erhöht die inkrementelle prädiktive Wertigkeit der 
Risikovorhersage. Ob diese Erhöhung klinisch relevant ist, so dass daraus eine 
Verminderung der kardialen Morbidität und Mortalität resultiert, ist nicht 
abschließend geklärt. Der Nachweis allein, dass eine Statintherapie bei 
asymptomatischen Personen mit normalen Lipid-, aber erhöhten hs-CRP-Spiegeln das 
Auftreten kardiovaskulärer Ereignisse reduzieren kann, ist nicht ausreichend, um 
einen zusätzlichen klinischen Nutzen eines hs-CRP-Screenings zu belegen. Bei 
Personen mit mittlerem kardiovaskulärem Risiko (5 bis 20% in zehn Jahren) 
erscheint eine zusätzliche Bestimmung des hs-CRP-Wertes zur Unterstützung der 
Entscheidung, ob eine zusätzliche Statintherapie zur Primärprävention 
durchgeführt werden soll oder nicht, am ehesten klinisch relevant. Die Frage der 
Kosten-Effektivität eines generellen oder auch auf die Personen mit normalen 
Lipidspiegeln begrenzten hs-CRP-Screenings ist derzeit ungeklärt.

DOI: 10.3205/hta000068
PMCID: PMC3011282
PMID: 21289893


964. GMS Health Technol Assess. 2008 Apr 15;4:Doc03.

Pharmacogenomics Bias - Systematic distortion of study results by genetic 
heterogeneity.

Siebert U(1), Sroczynski G, Zietemann V.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Medical Decision Making and Health Technology 
Assessment, UMIT - University for Health Sciences, Medical Informatics and 
Technology, Hall i.T., Austria.

BACKGROUND: Decision analyses of drug treatments in chronic diseases require 
modeling the progression of disease and treatment response beyond the time 
horizon of clinical or epidemiological studies. In many such models, progression 
and drug effect have been applied uniformly to all patients; heterogeneity in 
progression, including pharmacogenomic effects, has been ignored.
OBJECTIVE: We sought to systematically evaluate the existence, direction and 
relative magnitude of a pharmacogenomics bias (PGX-Bias) resulting from failure 
to adjust for genetic heterogeneity in both treatment response (HT) and 
heterogeneity in progression of disease (HP) in decision-analytic studies based 
on clinical study data.
METHODS: We performed a systematic literature search in electronic databases for 
studies regarding the effect of genetic heterogeneity on the validity of study 
results. Included studies have been summarized in evidence tables. In the case 
of lacking evidence from published studies we sought to perform our own 
simulation considering both HT and HP. We constructed two simple Markov models 
with three basic health states (early-stage disease, late-stage disease, dead), 
one adjusting and the other not adjusting for genetic heterogeneity. Adjustment 
was done by creating different disease states for presence (G+) and absence (G-) 
of a dichotomous genetic factor. We compared the life expectancy gains 
attributable to treatment resulting from both models and defined 
pharmacogenomics bias as percent deviation of treatment-related life expectancy 
gains in the unadjusted model from those in the adjusted model. We calculated 
the bias as a function of underlying model parameters to create generic results. 
We then applied our model to lipid-lowering therapy with pravastatin in patients 
with coronary atherosclerosis, incorporating the influence of two TaqIB 
polymorphism variants (B1 and B2) on progression and drug efficacy as reported 
in the DNA substudy of the REGRESS trial.
RESULTS: We found four studies that systematically evaluated heterogeneity bias. 
All of them indicated that there is a potential of heterogeneity bias. However, 
none of these studies explicitly investigated the effect of genetic 
heterogeneity. Therefore, we performed our own simulation study. Our generic 
simulation showed that a purely HT-related bias is negative (conservative) and a 
purely HP-related bias is positive (liberal). For many typical scenarios, the 
absolute bias is smaller than 10%. In case of joint HP and HT, the overall bias 
is likely triggered by the HP component and reaches positive values >100% if 
fractions of "fast progressors" and "strong treatment responders" are low. In 
the clinical example with pravastatin therapy, the unadjusted model 
overestimated the true life-years gained (LYG) by 5.5% (1.07 LYG vs. 0.99 LYG 
for 56-year-old men).
CONCLUSIONS: We have been able to predict the pharmacogenomics bias jointly 
caused by heterogeneity in progression of disease and heterogeneity in treatment 
response as a function of characteristics of patients, chronic disease, and 
treatment. In the case of joint presence of both types of heterogeneity, models 
ignoring this heterogeneity may generate results that overestimate the treatment 
benefit.

HINTERGRUND: Pharmakogenomik ist die Wissenschaft, die sich mit germinalen 
genetischen Variationen und mit deren Einfluss auf das Antwortverhalten auf 
pharmakologische Substanzen beschäftigt. In Entscheidungsanalysen zu 
Arzneimitteltherapien chronischer Erkrankungen müssen die Krankheitsprogression 
und Behandlungsresponse über den Zeithorizont klinischer oder epidemiologischer 
Studien hinaus modelliert werden. In vielen dieser Modelle wurde die Progression 
und Arzneimitteleffekt uniform für alle Patienten angesetzt und eine 
Heterogenität in der Progression und pharmakogenomische Effekte wurden häufig 
nicht berücksichtigt.
ZIEL: Ziel dieses HTA-Berichts ist eine systematische Evaluation des 
Pharmacogenomics-Bias (PGX-Bias). Insbesondere sollen Existenz, Richtung und 
Größe einer Verzerrung in entscheidungsanalytischen Modellierungen basierend auf 
klinischen Studien bewertet werden.
METHODEN: Es wurde eine systematische Literaturrecherche in den einschlägigen 
Datenbanken zum Einfluss genetischer Heterogenität auf die Validität von 
Studienergebnissen bzw. das Vorliegen eines PGX-Bias durchgeführt. Die 
eingeschlossenen Studien wurden in systematischen Kurzbeschreibungen und 
Evidenztabellen zusammengefasst. Zur validen Untersuchung eines PGX-Bias sollte 
bei Mangel an publizierten Studienergebnissen eine eigene 
entscheidungsanalytische Simulation durchgeführt werden, die sowohl die 
genetisch bedingte Heterogenität in der natürlichen Krankheitsprogression (HP) 
als auch die genetische bedingte Heterogenität in der Behandlungswirksamkeit 
(HW) untersucht. Es wurden zwei einfache Markov-Modelle entwickelt, von denen 
eines für die genetische Heterogenität adjustiert und das andere nicht. Der 
PGX-Bias wurde als prozentuale Abweichung der behandlungsbedingten zusätzlichen 
Lebensjahre (LYG) im nicht-adjustierten Modell vom adjustierten Modell 
definiert. In einem klinischen Beispiel wurde der PGX-Bias für die lipidsenkende 
Therapie mit Pravastin bei Patienten mit koronarer Atherosklerose ermittelt und 
dazu der Einfluss des TaqIB-Polymorphismus auf die Progression und 
Behandlungswahrscheinlichkeit basierend auf den Ergebnissen der 
REGRESS-DNA-Substudie ins Modell integriert.
ERGEBNISSE: Es wurden vier publizierte Studien identifiziert, die sich 
systematisch mit einem Heterogenitätsbias beschäftigen. Alle vier Studien deuten 
übereinstimmend auf das Potenzial eines Heterogenitätsbias hin, jedoch 
untersuchte keine dieser Studien explizit den Effekt von genetischer 
Heterogenität. Aus diesem Grund erfolgte eine eigene Simulationsstudie für diese 
Fragestellung. Die im Rahmen dieses HTA-Berichts eigens durchgeführte Simulation 
zeigt, dass ein rein HW-basierter Bias negativ (konservativ) ist und ein rein 
HP-basierter Bias positiv (liberal) ist. Für viele typische Szenarien ist der 
PGX-Bias kleiner als 10%. Im Fall einer kombinierten Heterogenität (HP und HW), 
ist es wahrscheinlich, dass der Gesamtbias durch die HP-Komponente bestimmt 
wird. Der PGX-Bias erreicht positive Werte von über 100%, wenn der Anteil der 
schnell progredierenden Patienten und starken Behandlungsrespondern niedrig ist. 
Im klinischen KHK-Beispiel (KHK=Koronare Herzkrankheit) mit Pravastinbehandlung 
überschätzte das nicht-adjustierte Modell den wahren Effekt der 
Pravastatinbehandlung in gewonnenen Lebensjahren um + 5,5% (1,07 LYG vs. 0,99 
LYG für 56 Jahre alte Männer).
SCHLUSSFOLGERUNGEN: In diesem HTA-Bericht konnte der PGX-Bias, der durch die 
Heterogenität in der Behandlungswahrscheinlichkeit und die Heterogenität in der 
Progression verursacht ist, als Funktion der Charakteristika von Patienten, 
chronischer Krankheit und Therapie dargestellt werden. Liegen beide 
Heterogenitätskomponenten vor, was in den meisten realistischen Situationen der 
Fall sein wird, so führt die Nichtberücksichtigung dieser Heterogenität zur 
Überschätzung des Behandlungseffekts.

PMCID: PMC3011301
PMID: 21289909


965. GMS Health Technol Assess. 2008 Aug 27;4:Doc07.

Measurement of fractional flow reserve to guide decisions for percutaneous 
coronary intervention.

Siebert U(1), Bornschein B, Schnell-Inderst P, Rieber J, Pijls N, Wasem J, 
Klauss V.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Public Health, Medical Decision Making und Health Technology 
Assessment, UMIT - Private Universität für Gesundheitswissenschaften, 
Medizinische Informatik und Technik, Hall i.T.; Österreich.

BACKGROUND: Coronary artery disease (CAD) is one of the leading causes of 
premature death in Germany. Percutaneous coronary interventions (PCI) are 
frequently performed in patients with angiographically intermediate stenoses. 
However, the necessity of PCI has not been proven for all patients. 
Pressure-based fractional flow reserve (FFR) is an invasive test that can be 
used to assess the functional significance of intermediate coronary stenoses in 
order to guide decisions on PCI.
OBJECTIVES: This health technology assessment (HTA) aims to evaluate (1) the 
diagnostic accuracy, (2) the risk-benefit trade-off and (3) the long-term 
cost-effectiveness of FFR measurement to guide the decision on PCI in patients 
with stable angina pectoris and intermediate coronary stenoses.
METHODS: We performed a literature search in medical and HTA databases. We used 
the DIMDI instruments (DIMDI = Deutsches Institut für Medizinische Dokumentation 
und Information/German Institute for Medical Information and Documentation) to 
assess study quality and to extract and summarize the information in evidence 
tables. We performed a meta-analysis to calculate the pooled overall estimate 
for sensitivity and specificity of FFR with 95% confidence intervals (95% CI). 
Individual studies' case numbers were used as weights. The influence of single 
studies and important covariates on the results was tested in sensitivity 
analyses. We developed the German Coronary Artery Disease Outcome Model (German 
CADOM), a decision-analytic Markov model, to estimate the long-term 
effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of FFR measurement in the context of the 
German healthcare system.
RESULTS: Our literature search identified twelve studies relevant to this 
HTA-report including ten diagnostic accuracy studies of FFR measurement, one 
randomized clinical trial (RCT) investigating the clinical benefits of this 
technique as well as one economic evaluation. Pooled estimates for sensitivity 
and specificity were 81.7% (95% CI: 77.0-85.7%) and 78.7% (95% CI: 74.3-82.7%). 
Sensitivity analyses indicated robust results. The RCT investigating the 
efficacy of an FFR-based treatment strategy provided evidence of the advantages 
of this strategy for patients with respect to freedom from angina and major 
adverse cardiac events. The published cost-effectiveness study demonstrates that 
the FFR-based strategy is cost-saving in the US context. Based on our own 
decision analysis for the German context, the FFR-based strategy improves 
(quality-adjusted) life-expectancy when compared to universal PCI and is 
cost-effective in the German healthcare context. This HTA is limited by the use 
of poor gold standards in several of the included diagnostic studies as well as 
the ongoing advance of technology and treatment options in interventional 
cardiology. Results of the decision analysis are limited by the necessary 
underlying assumptions and the uncertainty regarding long-term mortality 
reduction associated with PCI. Further research should focus on the acquisition 
of long-term data for disease progression in patients with and without 
functional coronary stenoses as well as the benefits and risks of PCI.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on actual evidence and our decision analysis, the use of FFR 
measurement to guide the decision on PCI should lead to better short- and 
long-term clinical outcomes in patients with stable angina and single-vessel 
disease without documented myocardial ischemia and it should provide a 
cost-effective use of resources in the German healthcare system. FFR measurement 
should be introduced in routine clinical practice. However, appropriate 
reimbursement strategies are necessary to avoid wrong incentives.

HINTERGRUND: Die koronare Herzkrankheit gehört zu den wichtigsten 
Mortalitätsursachen in Deutschland. Es wird zunehmend bezweifelt, ob alle der 
zahlreich durchgeführten perkutanen Koronarinterventionen (PCI) bei 
angiographisch mittelgradigen Stenosen medizinisch sinnvoll und notwendig sind. 
Für die Abwägung von medizinischem Nutzen, Risiko und Kosten zwischen PCI und 
medikamentöser Behandlung kann die druckbasierte Messung der koronaren 
fraktionierten Flussreserve (FFR) eine wichtige Entscheidungshilfe sein.
ZIELE: Dieses Health Technology Assessment (HTA) dient der Bewertung (1) der 
diagnostischen Genauigkeit, (2) der Nutzen-Risiko-Abschätzung und (3) der 
Langzeitkosteneffektivität der FFR zur Indikationsstellung der PCI bei stabiler 
Angina pectoris und angiographisch mittelgradigen Stenosen.
METHODEN: Es erfolgte eine Literaturrecherche in medizinischen und 
HTA-Datenbanken. Relevante Literaturstellen wurden mit Hilfe des 
DIMDI-Instrumentariums (DIMDI = Deutsches Institut für Medizinische 
Dokumentation und Information) auf Studienqualität geprüft, die Ergebnisse 
wurden systematisch beschrieben und in Evidenztabellen zusammenfassend 
dargestellt. Im Rahmen einer Metaanalyse wurden die gepoolten Schätzer für 
Sensitivität und Spezifität der FFR mit 95%-Konfidenzintervallen (95% KI) 
berechnet. Potenzielle Einflussfaktoren der Testgüte wurden in 
Sensitivitätsanalysen untersucht. Für die Bestimmung der klinischen und 
gesundheitsökonomischen Langzeitkonsequenzen der FFR-Messung im Kontext des 
deutschen Gesundheitssystems wurde ein entscheidungsanalytisches Markov-Modell 
entwickelt, das German Coronary Artery Disease Outcome Model (German CADOM).
ERGEBNISSE: Die Literaturrecherche ergab insgesamt zwölf relevante Studien: zehn 
Studien zur diagnostischen Testgüte von FFR, eine randomisierte klinische Studie 
(RCT) zum medizinischen Nutzen und eine gesundheitsökonomische Evaluation. Die 
gepoolte Sensitivität von FFR beträgt 81,7% (95% KI: 77,0-85,7%), die gepoolte 
Spezifität 78,7% (95% KI: 74,3-82,7%). Sensitivitätsanalysen deuten auf robuste 
Ergebnisse hin. Das RCT zum klinischen Nutzen einer FFR-basierten 
Behandlungsstrategie zeigt Vorteile für Patienten hinsichtlich Anginafreiheit 
und schwerwiegender kardialer Ereignisse. Die publizierte gesundheitsökonomische 
Evaluation deutet darauf hin, dass die FFR-Messung im US-amerikanischen Kontext 
kostensparend ist. Basierend auf den Ergebnissen des deutschen 
Entscheidungsmodells (German CADOM) führt die FFR-basierte Strategie zu einer 
höheren (qualitätsadjustierten) Lebenserwartung und ist im Kontext des deutschen 
Gesundheitssystems kosteneffektiv. Dieser HTA-Bericht ist limitiert durch die 
Verwendung eingeschränkter Goldstandards in einigen diagnostischen Studien sowie 
durch die fortwährende Weiterentwicklung von Technologie und 
Behandlungsmöglichkeiten in der interventionellen Kardiologie. Die Aussagen der 
Entscheidungsanalyse werden eingeschränkt durch die verwendeten Annahmen und 
Unsicherheit zur Wirksamkeit der PCI bezüglich Langzeitmortalität. 
Forschungsbedarf besteht in der Erhebung und Auswertung von Langzeitdaten zur 
Krankheitsprogression bei Patienten mit und ohne funktioneller Stenose sowie zu 
Nutzen und Risiken der PCI.
SCHLUSSFOLGERUNGEN UND EMPFEHLUNGEN: Basierend auf der aktuellen Evidenz und der 
entscheidungsanalytischen Modellierung ist davon auszugehen, dass bei Patienten 
mit stabiler Angina pectoris und Eingefäßerkrankung ohne kardialen 
Ischämienachweis die FFR-Messung zur Indikationsstellung der PCI zu verbesserten 
kurz- und langfristigen klinischen Ergebnissen führt sowie einen 
kosteneffektiven Einsatz von Ressourcen im deutschen Gesundheitssystem 
darstellt. Ein breiterer Einsatz der FFR-Messung erscheint sinnvoll, erfordert 
jedoch die Vereinbarung angemessener Entgelte zur Vermeidung möglicher 
Fehlanreize und Fehlsteuerungen.

PMCID: PMC3011307
PMID: 21289913


966. GMS Health Technol Assess. 2006 May 26;2:Doc13.

Orchiectomy versus medical therapy with LH-RH analogues for the treatment of 
advanced prostatic carcinoma.

Rohde V(1), Grabein K, Hessel F, Siebert U, Wasem J.

Author information:
(1)Urologische Klinik, Justus-Liebig-Universität Gießen, Deutschland.

BACKGROUND: In Germany prostatic cancer is the most frequent cancer in men. The 
therapy of advanced prostatic cancer has changed significantly from the sub 
capsulate and / or total orchiectomy to the medical LH-RH analogues therapy 
during the last ten years, which has considerable effects on results and on 
costs. Both treatment procedures are based on a slowing down regulation of the 
growth of the hormone sensitive, neoplastic prostatic cells by the withdrawal of 
testosterone, which is clinically accompanied by a slowed tumor progression.
OBJECTIVES: This health technology assessment depicts and evaluates 
international data of medical effectiveness and efficiency of orchiectomy and 
medical therapy with LH-RH-analogues in patients with advanced prostate cancer.
METHODS: A systematic, diversified literature analysis in the common medical, 
economic and HTA data bases and further media was conducted.
RESULTS: Five identified, randomized and controlled studies concerning the 
application of LH-RH analogues showed the same medical effectiveness of 
orchiectomy and treatment with LH-RH analogues. Four different studies regarding 
the quality of life revealed no significant difference between the treatment 
with LH-RH analogues and the therapy with orchiectomy. Dealing with health 
economic aspects seven cost-minimizing studies and one cost effectiveness study 
could be identified. All cost-minimizing studies show methodological 
restrictions. In general all studies draw the conclusion that the treatment of 
advanced prostatic cancer with orchiectomy is the most cost effective method, if 
one assumes a remaining life expectancy of more than one year.
CONCLUSIONS: According to available studies, there is clear evidence for the 
equivalent effectiveness of LH-RH analogues and orchiectomy. Until now the 
studies - due to immense methodological restrictions - could not supply 
sufficient scientific evidence concerning the aspects of quality of life. In 
cases of a remaining life expectancy of more than one year, the orchiectomy is 
the more cost-effective alternative of therapy.

HINTERGRUND: Das Prostatakarzinom zählt in Deutschland zu den häufigsten 
Tumorerkrankungen beim Mann. In der Therapie des fortgeschrittenen 
Prostatakarzinoms vollzog sich in den letzten zehn Jahren ein signifikanter 
Wechsel von der subkapsulären bzw. totalen Orchiektomie zur medikamentösen 
LH-RH-Analoga-Therapie, der sowohl auf der Outcome- als auch auf der Kostenseite 
mit erheblichen Konsequenzen verbunden sein kann. Das Prinzip beider 
Behandlungsverfahren besteht in einer Verlangsamung des Wachstums der 
hormonsensitiven, neoplastischen Prostatazellen durch den Entzug des 
Testosterons, das klinisch mit einer verlangsamten Tumorprogression einhergeht.
ZIELE: In diesem HTA-Bericht wird die internationale Datenlage zur Effektivität 
und Wirtschaftlichkeit der Hormondeprivation durch LH-RH-Analoga und der 
Orchiektomie zur Behandlung des fortgeschrittenen Prostatakarzinoms berichtet 
und bewertet.
METHODEN: Zur Erschließung des Datenmaterials wurde eine systematische, breit 
angelegte Literaturrecherche in den gängigen medizinischen, ökonomischen und 
HTA-Datenbanken und weiteren Medien durchgeführt.
ERGEBNISSE: In den fünf identifizierten, randomisierten, kontrollierten Studien 
zum Einsatz von LH-RH-Analoga zeigte sich die gleiche medizinische Wirksamkeit 
gegenüber dem Prostatakarzinom wie bei einer Behandlung mit einer Orchiektomie. 
Hinsichtlich der Lebensqualität konnte in vier Studien unterschiedlichen 
Studiendesigns kein signifikanter Unterschied zwischen einer Behandlung mit 
LH-RH-Analoga und einer Therapie mit Orchiektomie gezeigt werden. Zu 
gesundheitsökonomischen Aspekten konnten insgesamt sieben Kostenminimierungs- 
und eine Kosteneffektivitätsanalyse identifiziert werden. Die 
Kostenminimierungsanalysen zeigen allesamt methodische Mängel auf. Insgesamt 
kommen alle Studien zu dem Schluss, dass aus gesundheitsökonomischer Sicht die 
Behandlung bei fortgeschrittenem Prostatakarzinom mit einer Orchiektomie die 
kostengünstigere Variante darstellt, wenn man von einer Restüberlebenszeit von 
mehr als einem Jahr ausgeht.
SCHLUSSFOLGERUNGEN: Nach der gegenwärtig vorliegenden Studienlage gibt es klare 
Belege für die äquivalente Wirksamkeit von LH-RH-Analoga und einer Orchiektomie 
zur Therapie eines fortgeschrittenen Prostatakarzinoms. Zu den Aspekten der 
Lebensqualität konnten die Studien - nicht zuletzt aufgrund der starken 
methodischen Limitationen - noch keine ausreichende wissenschaftliche Evidenz 
liefern. Bei einer Restüberlebenszeit von mehr als einem Jahr ist die 
Orchiektomie die kostengünstigere Versorgungsalternative.

PMCID: PMC3011358
PMID: 21289964


967. J Inherit Metab Dis. 2011 Apr;34(2):391-8. doi: 10.1007/s10545-010-9267-3.
Epub  2011 Feb 3.

Parenting a child with phenylketonuria or galactosemia: implications for 
health-related quality of life.

ten Hoedt AE(1), Maurice-Stam H, Boelen CC, Rubio-Gozalbo ME, van Spronsen FJ, 
Wijburg FA, Bosch AM, Grootenhuis MA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics (H7-270), Academic Medical Center, University of 
Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

Parents of children with chronic disorders have an impaired health-related 
quality of life (HRQoL) compared to parents of healthy children. Remarkably, 
parents of children with a metabolic disorder reported an even lower HRQoL than 
parents of children with other chronic disorders. Possibly, the uncertainty 
about the course of the disease and the limited life expectancy in many 
metabolic disorders are important factors in the low parental HRQoL. Therefore, 
we performed a cross-sectional study in parents of children with phenylketonuria 
(PKU, OMIM #261600) and galactosemia (OMIM #230400), metabolic disorders not 
affecting life expectancy, in order to investigate their HRQoL compared to 
parents of healthy children and to parents of children with other metabolic 
disorders. A total of 185 parents of children with PKU and galactosemia aged 
1-19 years completed two questionnaires. Parents of children with PKU or 
galactosemia reported a HRQoL comparable to parents of healthy children and a 
significantly better HRQoL than parents of children with other metabolic 
disorders. Important predictors for parental mental HRQoL were the psychosocial 
factors emotional support and loss of friendship. As parental mental functioning 
influences the health, development and adjustment of their children, it is 
important that treating physicians also pay attention to the wellbeing of the 
parents. The insight that emotional support and loss of friendship influence the 
HRQoL of the parents enables treating physicians to provide better support for 
these parents.

DOI: 10.1007/s10545-010-9267-3
PMCID: PMC3063540
PMID: 21290186 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


968. Bioessays. 2011 Apr;33(4):255-9. doi: 10.1002/bies.201000132. Epub 2011 Feb
2.

The free-radical damage theory: Accumulating evidence against a simple link of 
oxidative stress to ageing and lifespan.

Speakman JR(1), Selman C.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biological and Environmental Sciences, University of Aberdeen, 
Aberdeen, Scotland, UK. j.speakman@abdn.ac.uk

Recent work on a small European cave salamander (Proteus anguinus) has revealed 
that it has exceptional longevity, yet it appears to have unexceptional defences 
against oxidative damage. This paper comes at the end of a string of other 
studies that are calling into question the free-radical damage theory of ageing. 
This theory rose to prominence in the 1990s as the dominant theory for why we 
age and die. Despite substantial correlative evidence to support it, studies in 
the last five years have raised doubts over its importance. In particular, these 
include studies of mice with the major antioxidant genes knocked out (both 
singly and in combination), which show the expected elevation in oxidative 
damage but no impact on lifespan. Combined, these findings raise fundamental 
questions over whether the free-radical damage theory remains useful for 
understanding the ageing process, and variation in lifespan and life histories.

Copyright © 2011 WILEY Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/bies.201000132
PMID: 21290398 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


969. (68)Ga-Labeled 
2-{3-[5-(7-{1-benzyloxycarbonyl-5-[2-(4,7,10-tris-carboxymethyl-1,4,7,10-tetraazacyclododec-1-l)acetylamino]pentylcarbamoyl}-heptanoylamino)-1-carboxypentyl]ureido}pentanedioic
 acid.

Chopra A(1).

In: Molecular Imaging and Contrast Agent Database (MICAD) [Internet]. Bethesda 
(MD): National Center for Biotechnology Information (US); 2004–2013.
2010 Sep 28 [updated 2010 Dec 28].

Author information:
(1)National Center for Biotechnology Information, NLM, NIH, Bethesda, MD 20894

The prostate-specific membrane antigen (PSMA) is a type II membrane glycoprotein 
that is present primarily in the prostate and is overexpressed during all stages 
of the androgen-insensitive or the metastatic cancer of this organ (1). In 
addition, PSMA is expressed at lower levels (compared to the prostate) in the 
neovasculature of some solid tumors (for details, see Elsasser-Beile et al. 
(1)). Because of its high expression during the development and progression of a 
malignancy, PSMA is considered to be a good target for the imaging and treatment 
of prostate cancer (2). Several investigators have reported the use of 
radio-halogenated (e.g., 18F, 125I, etc.) and 99mTc-labeled small molecule 
inhibitors for the imaging of PSMA (3). Among these radionuclides, 18F is the 
most frequently used to label diverse positron emission tomography (PET) agents 
for diagnostic imaging because its addition to a molecule (usually by the 
replacement of a hydrogen atom) does not alter its chemical properties; however, 
due to its short half-life (~110 min), an on-site cyclotron is needed to produce 
this radio-halogen (4). Recently 68Ga (half-life, ~68 min) has been suggested to 
be a suitable alternative to the use of 18F for the production of PET imaging 
probes because 68Ga is easy to produce with a 68Ge/68Ga generator system that 
does not have to be on-site. However, it is necessary to mention that currently 
no 68Ge/68Ga generator system has been approved by the United States Food and 
Drug Administration (Eckelman: personal communication). In addition, 68Ga has 
been successfully used by some investigators to study cancer and tumor biology 
(4, 5). On the basis of these observations, and as an extension of their earlier 
work (for references, see Banerjee et al. (3)), Banerjee et al. developed two 
68Ga-labeled, urea-based inhibitors of PSMA ([68Ga]-labeled 
2-{3-[5-(7-{1-benzyloxycarbonyl-5-[2-(4,7,10-tris-carboxymethyl-1,4,7,10-tetraazacyclododec-1-l)acetylamino]pentylcarbamoyl}-heptanoylamino)-1-carboxypentyl]ureido}pentanedioic 
acid ([68Ga]3) and [68Ga]-labeled 
2-[3-(1-carboxy-5-{7-[5-carboxy-5-(3-phenyl-2-{3-phenyl-2-[2-(4,7,10-tris-carboxymethyl-1,4,7,10-tetraazacyclododec-1-l)acetylamino]propionylamino}propionylamino)pentylcarbamoyl]heptanoylamino}pentyl) 
ureido]pentanedioic acid ([68Ga]6)) and evaluated them for biodistribution and 
the imaging of PSMA-expressing tumors in nude mice (3). This chapter details the 
results obtained with [68Ga]3. Results obtained with [68Ga]6 are presented in a 
separate chapter of MICAD (www.micad.nih.gov) (6).

PMID: 21290633


970. Maternal Mortality.

Rogo KO, Oucho J, Mwalali P.

In: Jamison DT, Feachem RG, Makgoba MW, Bos ER, Baingana FK, Hofman KJ, Rogo KO, 
editors. Disease and Mortality in Sub-Saharan Africa. 2nd edition. Washington 
(DC): The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development / The World 
Bank; 2006. Chapter 16.

At the close of the last century, Sub-Saharan Africa still had high maternal 
morbidity and mortality rates, with the goals of safe motherhood eluding many 
governments. The Programme of Action of the International Conference on 
Population and Development of 1994 and the Fourth World Conference on Women of 
1995 were created in an attempt to tackle these issues and drew unprecedented 
attention to reproductive health and rights as well as to gender equity and 
equality. The scourge of the human immunodeficiency virus and acquired immune 
deficiency syndrome (HIV/AIDS) has ravaged the region's population and has left 
in its wake untold destruction in the demographic, economic, and social spheres 
(UN 2003). Demographic events of the last decade are a sharp contrast to those 
in the 1980s, when decreasing infant, child, and adult mortality rates and 
maternal mortality ratios (MMRs) were leading to steadily increasing life 
expectancy and improved health status for women in the region. Data sets 
assembled since the 1990s are the basis for the analysis of maternal mortality 
in Sub-Saharan Africa in this chapter. Beginning with an examination of 
measurement approaches and data sources of maternal mortality, the chapter 
continues with a description of the levels and trends in maternal mortality in 
the decade 1990–2000. The causes and correlates of maternal mortality, as well 
as priority interventions, are examined. The last section of the chapter points 
to what Sub-Saharan African countries could do to meet the maternal health 
component of the Millennium Development Goals.

Copyright © 2006, The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development/The 
World Bank.

PMID: 21290649


971. HIV/AIDS.

Mboup S, Musonda R, Mhalu F, Essex M.

In: Jamison DT, Feachem RG, Makgoba MW, Bos ER, Baingana FK, Hofman KJ, Rogo KO, 
editors. Disease and Mortality in Sub-Saharan Africa. 2nd edition. Washington 
(DC): The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development / The World 
Bank; 2006. Chapter 17.

The epidemic of HIV/AIDS is unprecedented, having expanded from a new disease to 
the leading cause of death in Sub-Saharan Africa in just over two decades. 
Despite some clear examples of success, such as Senegal for prevention, and 
Uganda for control, major new measures are needed to avoid further devastation. 
The epidemic in Africa is uneven, with the greatest burden in southern Africa, 
where populations are already experiencing major reductions in life expectancy 
and a reversal of progress in the management of national economies. About 
two-thirds of the world's HIV infections are in Sub-Saharan Africa in just 10 
percent of the world's population. Because HIV/AIDS in the Americas and Europe 
is uncommon in women and rare in children, Africa holds more than 90 percent of 
the world's burden on such issues as child mortality and the care of orphans. At 
present, prevention strategies are largely limited to education for changes in 
sexual practices and the use of condoms. Vaccines and microbicides represent an 
extremely important area of research, but useful products are not likely to be 
available in less than 5 to 10 years. ARV drug treatment programs have begun in 
Africa but are as yet very modest in impact. Operational research to maximize 
the benefits of ARV use will be important to address treatment efficacy and drug 
resistance, the impact on health manpower resources, and cost-effectiveness. The 
full devastation of AIDS in Africa has yet to be fully appreciated. Still, an 
increase in awareness and willingness to act should give cause for optimism.

Copyright © 2006, The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development/The 
World Bank.

PMID: 21290650


972. Levels and Trends in Mortality in Sub-Saharan Africa: An Overview.

Adetunji J, Bos ER.

In: Jamison DT, Feachem RG, Makgoba MW, Bos ER, Baingana FK, Hofman KJ, Rogo KO, 
editors. Disease and Mortality in Sub-Saharan Africa. 2nd edition. Washington 
(DC): The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development / The World 
Bank; 2006. Chapter 2.

One of the major achievements of the twentieth century in Sub-Saharan Africa is 
the unprecedented decline in mortality and the corresponding increase in the 
expectation of life at birth. At the dawn of the twentieth century, Sub-Saharan 
Africa was characterized by extremely high under-five mortality levels and by 
low life expectancy at birth. By the end of the century, however, mortality 
among children under five had decreased from about 500 per 1,000 live births to 
about 150 (World Bank 2005). Similarly, the average length of life, which was 
less than 30 years about 100 years ago, had increased to more than 50 years by 
the early 1990s. Much of the mortality decline happened in the second half of 
the twentieth century, the fastest rate of decline occurring in the first 
decades after World War II (Hill 1991). In the 1990s, mortality decline stalled 
for the region overall, with many countries experiencing reversals in the upward 
trend in life expectancy largely because of AIDS mortality. This overview 
focuses on the period between 1960 and 2005. This period roughly corresponds to 
the postcolonial era in many countries in the region, in which large economic 
and social changes occurred. Some of these changes were beneficial to the health 
of the population (such as economic growth and increasing access to health 
interventions), whereas others are associated with increasing exposure to risk 
factors that lead to increased morbidity and mortality (such as increasing 
exposure to risks for noncommunicable diseases or the spread of new and 
reemerging communicable diseases). Therefore, monitoring mortality levels and 
trends in the Sub-Saharan region provides not only a direct reflection of the 
health status of populations but also an indirect gauge of the effects of 
economic, political, and epidemiological turbulence that faced the region.

Copyright © 2006, The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development/The 
World Bank.

PMID: 21290653


973. Fabry disease in females: clinical characteristics and effects of enzyme 
replacement therapy.

Deegan PB(1), Bähner F(2), Barba M(3), Hughes DA(4), Beck M(2).

In: Mehta A(5), Beck M(6), Sunder-Plassmann G(7), editors. Fabry Disease: 
Perspectives from 5 Years of FOS. Oxford: Oxford PharmaGenesis; 2006. Chapter 
30.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Cambridge, Box 157, Addenbrooke's 
Hospital, Hills Road, Cambridge, CB2 2QQ, UK
(2)University Children's Hospital, 55131 Mainz, Germany
(3)Internal Medicine Department, Albacete University Hospital, 37 Hermanos Falcó 
Street, 02006, Albacete, Spain
(4)Lysosomal Storage Disorders Unit, Department of Academic Haematology, Royal 
Free and University College Medical School, Rowland Hill Street, London, NW3 
2PF, UK
(5)Department of Academic Haematology, Royal Free and University College Medical 
School, London, UK
(6)Universitäts-Kinderklinik, Mainz, Germany
(7)Division of Nephrology and Dialysis, Department of Medicine III, Medical 
University Vienna, Vienna, Austria

The availability of enzyme replacement therapy (ERT) and the possibility of 
improved organ function, quality of life and ultimately life expectancy has 
stimulated reevaluation of the clinical expression of Fabry disease in females. 
Recent editions of general medical textbooks now recognize the burden of signs 
and symptoms found in heterozygotes. The use of the term carrier in this 
disorder has been questioned. FOS – the Fabry Outcome Survey – has reinforced 
the high prevalence of disease manifestations occurring in heterozygous females 
and now provides a mechanism for evaluating the natural history of disease and 
effects of ERT with agalsidase alfa in a large cohort of female patients.

Copyright © 2006, Oxford PharmaGenesis™.

PMID: 21290688


974. Rev Med Suisse. 2010 Dec 8;6(274):2336-9.

[Prostate cancer screening: utility, goals and perspectives in 2010].

[Article in French]

Iselin C(1), Jichlinski P.

Author information:
(1)Service d'urologie, Departement de chirurgie, HUG et Faculté de médecine, 
Université de Genève. christophe.iselin@hcuge.ch

According to recent results of a sub-group of 20,000 patients from the ERSPC 
study, prostate cancer screening significantly increases disease specific 
survival for men with a life expectancy of 15 years. However presently, only 20% 
of prostate biopsies lead to the diagnosis of cancer. This low yield may be 
increased by using new tools on their way to validation, such as the blood and 
urinary markers p2-PSA and PCA3, so as MRI and tridimensional computerized 
echography. Finally, the tumours detected must be managed with subtlety, since a 
third of them are not overtly aggressive clinically. Hence, a significant 
proportion of such tumours may not need immediate curative intent treatment, and 
can be followed up in an active surveillance protocol.

PMID: 21290864 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


975. BJOG. 2011 Apr;118(5):550-6. doi: 10.1111/j.1471-0528.2010.02845.x. Epub
2011  Feb 4.

Trans-obturator tape compared with tension-free vaginal tape in the surgical 
treatment of stress urinary incontinence: a cost utility analysis.

Lier D(1), Ross S, Tang S, Robert M, Jacobs P; Calgary Women's Pelvic Health 
Research Group.

Collaborators: Baverstock R, Birch C, Brasher P, Carlson K, Cenaiko D, Dederer 
L, Jacobs P, Lier D, Mainprize T, Murphy M, Robert M, Ross S, Swaby C, Tang S, 
Williamson T.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Health Economics, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada.

Erratum in
    BJOG. 2013 Dec;120(13):1705.

OBJECTIVE: To conduct an economic evaluation of the use of trans-obturator tape 
(TOT) compared with tension-free vaginal tape (TVT) in the surgical treatment of 
stress urinary incontinence (SUI) in women.
DESIGN: Cost utility analysis from public-payer perspective, conducted alongside 
a randomised clinical trial (RCT).
SETTING: Health services provided in Alberta, Canada.
POPULATION: A total of 194 women who participated in the RCT, followed to 1 year 
from surgery.
METHODS: Data collected on all women in the RCT, over 12 months following 
surgery. Comparisons undertaken between RCT groups for cost and quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs). Multiple imputation used for the 10% missing data. 
Bootstrapping used to account for sampling uncertainty. One-way sensitivity 
analysis conducted for productivity loss due to time away from work.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Utility--15D questionnaire was used to calculate QALYs. 
Costs over 12 months--from trial data, health provider and provincial ministry 
of health.
RESULTS: The TOT group had a non-significant average saving of $1133 (95% CI 
-2793; 442), with no difference in average QALYs between groups (95% CI -0.02; 
0.01). TOT was cost-saving in over 80% of bootstrapping replications, over a 
wide range of willingness-to-pay.
CONCLUSION: The bootstrapping replication results suggest that TOT could be 
cost-effective compared with TVT in the treatment of SUI. However, these results 
must be confirmed by longer-term assessment of clinical and economic outcomes, 
because of concern that surgical tape palpable at 12 months may lead to vaginal 
erosion and further treatment.

© 2011 The Authors BJOG An International Journal of Obstetrics and Gynaecology © 
2011 RCOG.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1471-0528.2010.02845.x
PMID: 21291510 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


976. Health Technol Assess. 2011 Feb;15(6):1-244. doi: 10.3310/hta15060.

A systematic review and economic evaluation of the use of tumour necrosis 
factor-alpha (TNF-α) inhibitors, adalimumab and infliximab, for Crohn's disease.

Dretzke J(1), Edlin R, Round J, Connock M, Hulme C, Czeczot J, Fry-Smith A, 
McCabe C, Meads C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health & Epidemiology, University of Birmingham, 
Birmingham, UK.

BACKGROUND: Crohn's disease (CD) is a severe, lifelong disease characterised by 
inflammation of the gastrointestinal mucosa. The impact on patients and society 
is high as ill health can be lifelong and can negatively affect patients' 
quality of life. Costs to the NHS are high, particularly for patients needing 
hospitalisation. Conventional treatment pathways are complex. More recently, a 
group of drugs called tumour necrosis factor (TNF) inhibitors (anti-TNF-α 
agents) have been evaluated for their effectiveness in CD. One of these, 
infliximab, is currently recommended by the National Institute for Health and 
Clinical Excellence (NICE; 2002) for patients with severe, active CD where 
patients are refractory to or intolerant of conventional treatment.
OBJECTIVES: To investigate whether there is evidence for greater clinical 
effectiveness or cost-effectiveness for either adalimumab or infliximab.
DATA SOURCES: Cochrane Library (Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials) 
2007 Issue 2; MEDLINE (Ovid) 2000 to May/June 2007; MEDLINE In-Process & Other 
Non-Indexed Citations (Ovid) 4 June and 26 June 2007; EMBASE (Ovid) 2000 to 
May/June 2007. The European Medicines Agency, the US Food and Drug 
Administration and other relevant websites.
REVIEW METHODS: Standard systematic review methods were used for study 
identification and selection, data extraction and quality assessment. Only 
randomised controlled trials (RCTs) comparing adalimumab or infliximab with 
standard treatment (placebo), RCTs comparing adalimumab with infliximab, or RCTs 
comparing different dosing regimens of either adalimumab or infliximab in adults 
and children with moderate-to-severe active CD intolerant or resistant to 
conventional treatment were eligible for inclusion. A systematic review of 
published studies on the cost and cost-effectiveness of adalimumab and 
infliximab was undertaken. The economic models of cost-effectiveness submitted 
by the manufacturers of both drugs were critically appraised and, where 
appropriate, rerun using parameter inputs based on the evidence identified by 
the authors of the technology asessment report. A de novo Markov state 
transition model was constructed to calculate the incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio for adalimumab and infliximab therapy compared with standard care.
RESULTS: Based on 11 trials, there was evidence from both induction and 
maintenance trials that both adalimumab and infliximab therapy were beneficial 
compared with placebo (standard care) for adults with moderate-to-severe CD and, 
for infliximab, for adults with fistulising CD; results were statistically 
significant for some time points. Between 6% and 24% (adalimumab), and 21% and 
44% (infliximab) more patients achieved remission with anti-TNF-α antibodies 
than with placebo in the induction trials. Between 24% and 29% (adalimumab), and 
14% and 24% (infliximab) more patients achieved remission with anti-TNF-α 
antibodies in the two large maintenance trials at reported follow-up. In 
fistulising CD, between 29% and 42% (induction trial) and 23% (maintenance 
trial) more patients achieved a > 50% reduction in fistulas with infliximab than 
with placebo at reported follow-up. There was no direct evidence to show that 
'responders' were more likely to benefit from treatment than 'non-responders' in 
the longer term. Few differences were found between treatment and standard care 
arms for selected adverse events, though high proportions of scheduled 
crossovers resulted in a lack of a true placebo group in most of the maintenance 
trials. No published studies on the cost-effectiveness of adalimumab were 
identified. The four independently funded studies identified for infliximab 
suggested high cost-effectiveness ratios [all above £50,000/quality-adjusted 
life-year (QALY) for non-fistulising disease and all above £100,000/QALY for 
fistulising disease]. A budget impact assessment suggested that total cost to 
the NHS in England and Wales for induction in severe disease only could range 
between £17M and £92M and for maintenance for 1 year between £140M and £200M.
LIMITATIONS: Regarding clinical effectiveness, there were concerns about the 
trial design and lack of clarity, which may have affected interpretation of 
results. None of the trials matched exactly the licence indications or NICE 
guidance, which specify the use of these drugs in patients with 'severe' 
disease. All trials were multicentre, and applicability to UK populations, 
particularly in terms of standard care being provided and in terms of patients 
having failed or having become intolerant to conventional treatment, was 
uncertain. The published economic models relied heavily on little information 
and data from small samples.
CONCLUSIONS: Anti-TNF therapy with adalimumab or infliximab may have a 
beneficial effect compared with standard care on outcome measures for induction 
and maintenance. The findings were that for induction, both adalimumab and 
infliximab are cost-effective (dominant relative to standard care) in the 
management of severe CD, and adalimumab (but not infliximab) is cost-effective 
for moderate CD, according to limits generally accepted by NICE. On the basis of 
the analysis presented here, neither drug is likely to be cost-effective as 
maintenance therapy for moderate or severe disease. Perhaps, most importantly, 
the analysis reflected the fact that a substantial number of patients would 
achieve remission under standard care and that the incidence of relapse among 
those in remission was such that maintenance therapy would have to show greater 
effectiveness than at present and/or be much less costly than it currently is in 
order to reach the levels of generally accepted cost-effectiveness. Any future 
trials need to be designed to meet the particular challenges of measuring and 
quantifying benefit in this patient group.
FUNDING: The research was funded by the HTA programme on behalf of NICE.

DOI: 10.3310/hta15060
PMCID: PMC4781107
PMID: 21291629 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


977. Dermatitis. 2011 Jan-Feb;22(1):40-6.

Atopic dermatitis in adults.

Zeppa L(1), Bellini V, Lisi P.

Author information:
(1)Clinical, Allergological and Venereological Dermatology Unit, Department of 
Medical and Surgical Specialities and Public Health, University of Perugia, 
Perugia, Italy.

Comment in
    Dermatitis. 2012 Jan-Feb;23(1):52-3; author reply 53.

Atopic dermatitis (AD) is a chronically relapsing eczematous disease, more 
common in infants and children than in adults and very rare after midlife. The 
diagnosis of AD is not always easy in adults, especially when the extension of 
lesions is limited and their distribution atypical. The aim of this study was to 
investigate epidemiologic and clinical features of adult AD. The medical files 
of 332 consecutive AD patients were reviewed to ascertain family and personal 
history of atopy, age at onset, morphology and localization sites of AD lesions, 
serum total immunoglobulin E levels, skin prick-test and patch-test results. The 
present study has show that the disease is more frequent in females and during 
the third decade of life, starts after the 18th year in slightly fewer than half 
the patients (47.6%), is prevalently localized in the limb flexures, eyelids, 
and perioral region, but also in the forehead, cheeks, and anterolateral region 
of the neck, where it is mainly mild to moderate. AD is of the intrinsic type in 
30.4% of cases. Positive patch-test reactions to chemical allergens have been 
observed in 23.8% of patients. These are very important, because they may 
influence the occupational choices and the development of hand dermatitis.

PMID: 21291642 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


978. Biomaterials. 2011 Apr;32(11):2821-33. doi:
10.1016/j.biomaterials.2011.01.051.  Epub 2011 Feb 2.

Osteoblast function on electrically conductive electrospun PLA/MWCNTs 
nanofibers.

Shao S(1), Zhou S, Li L, Li J, Luo C, Wang J, Li X, Weng J.

Author information:
(1)School of Life Science and Engineering, Southwest Jiaotong University, 
Chengdu 610031, Sichuan, PR China.

The electrospinning process was utilized successfully to fabricate the random 
oriented and aligned electrically conductive nanofibers of biodegradable 
poly-DL-lactide (PLA) in which multiwalled carbon nanotubes (MWCNTs) were 
embedded. The topographical features of the composite nanofibers were 
characterized by SEM. The dispersion and alignment of MWCNTs in nanofiber matrix 
were observed by TEM. The in vitro degradation was characterized in terms of the 
morphological change, the mass loss and the reduction of polymer molecular 
weight as well as the decrease of pH value of degradation media. In particular, 
these conductive nanofiber meshes offered a unique system to study the 
synergistic effect of topographic cues and electrical stimulation on osteoblasts 
outgrowth as a way of exploring their potential application in bone tissue 
engineering. The results of obsteoblasts assay unstimulated showed that the 
aligned nanofibers as topographic cues could enhance the extension and direct 
the outgrowth of obsteoblasts better than random fibers. In the presence of 
direct current (DC) of 100 μA, the obsteoblasts on all samples grew along the 
electrical current direction. The cellular elongation and proliferation were 
mainly dependent on the electrical stimulation whereas the topographical 
features played a minor role in them. Therefore, electrical stimulation with an 
appropriate DC value imparted on conductive substrate had great potential in 
application of bone tissue engineering.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biomaterials.2011.01.051
PMID: 21292320 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


979. Vet Parasitol. 2011 Mar 22;176(4):300-3. doi: 10.1016/j.vetpar.2011.01.013.
Epub  2011 Jan 19.

Can heartworm prevalence in dogs be used as provisional data for assessing the 
prevalence of the infection in cats?

Venco L(1), Genchi M, Genchi C, Gatti D, Kramer L.

Author information:
(1)Veterinary Hospital Città di Pavia, 27100 Pavia, Italy. luigivenco@libero.it

Cats are considered a susceptible host for Dirofilaria immitis; however, 
increased host resistance is reflected by relatively low adult worm burdens in 
natural and experimental infections; the prolonged prepatent period (8 months); 
the low level and short duration of microfilaremia; and the short life span of 
adult worms (2-3 years). From April to September 2006, 212 cats and 608 dogs, 
all exposed for at least one transmission season, were screened for D. immitis 
infection in a multi-center study in the Po River Valley in northern Italy. Cats 
were initially evaluated by antibody testing; positive subjects were followed up 
by antigen testing and echocardiography (and necropsy if death occurred). The 
prevalence in dogs was 29% by a modified Knott test and antigen testing compared 
with a prevalence of 4.7% in cats by an antibody test; six of these infections 
(2.8%) were confirmed by the follow-up evaluations. This field study 
demonstrated that the prevalence of heartworm infection in cats in this area is 
within the expected limits of 9-18% of the prevalence in dogs. Antibody testing 
likely underestimates the real prevalence of D. immitis infection in cats. These 
results also emphasize the importance of preventive treatment in cats.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vetpar.2011.01.013
