Author information:
(1)Beijing Tongren Eye Centre, Beijing Tongren Hospital, Capital Medical 
University, Beijing, China.

Comment in
    J Clin Oncol. 2011 Aug 20;29(24):3333-4; author reply 3335-6.
    J Clin Oncol. 2011 Aug 20;29(24):3334-5; author reply 3335-6.

PURPOSE: Initial response of intraocular retinoblastoma to chemotherapy has 
encouraged primary chemotherapy instead of primary enucleation for eyes with 
clinical features suggesting high risk of extraocular extension or metastasis. 
Upfront enucleation of such high-risk eyes allows pathologic evaluation of 
extraocular extension, key to management with appropriate surveillance and 
adjuvant therapy. Does chemotherapy before enucleation mask histologic features 
of extraocular extension, potentially endangering the child's life by subsequent 
undertreatment?
METHODS: We performed retrospective analysis of 100 eyes with advanced 
retinoblastoma enucleated with, or without, primary chemotherapy, in Beijing 
Tongren Hospital, retrospectively, from October 31, 2008. The extent of 
retinoblastoma invasion into optic nerve, uvea, and anterior chamber on 
histopathology was staged by pTNM classification. The treatment groups were 
compared for pathologic stage (Cochran-Armitage trend test) and disease-specific 
mortality (competing risks methods).
RESULTS: Children who received chemotherapy before enucleation had lower pTNM 
stage than primarily enucleated children (P = .01). Five patients who received 
pre-enucleation chemotherapy died as a result of extension into brain or 
metastasis. No patients who had primary enucleation died. For children with 
group E eyes, disease-specific survival (DSS) was lower with pre-enucleation 
chemotherapy (n = 45) than with primary enucleation (n = 37; P = .01). 
Enucleation longer than 3 months after diagnosis was also associated with lower 
DSS (P < .001).
CONCLUSION: Chemotherapy before enucleation of group E eyes with advanced 
retinoblastoma downstaged pathologic evidence of extraocular extension, and 
increased the risk of metastatic death from reduced surveillance and 
inappropriate management of high-risk disease, if enucleation was performed 
longer than 3 months after diagnosis.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2010.32.5332
PMID: 21282531 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


943. Ann Intern Med. 2011 Feb 1;154(3):174-80. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-154-3-201102010-00007.

High-value, cost-conscious health care: concepts for clinicians to evaluate the 
benefits, harms, and costs of medical interventions.

Owens DK(1), Qaseem A, Chou R, Shekelle P; Clinical Guidelines Committee of the 
American College of Physicians.

Collaborators: Shekelle P, Chou R, Dallas P, Denberg TD, Fitterman N, Forciea 
MA, Hopkins RH Jr, Humphrey LL, Mir TP, Owens DK, Schünemann HJ, Sweet DE, 
Weinberg DS.

Author information:
(1)Veterans Affairs Palo Alto Health Care System, Palo Alto, California, USA.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 2011 Feb 1;154(3):207-8.

Summary for patients in
    Ann Intern Med. 2011 Feb 1;154(3):I30.

Health care costs in the United States are increasing unsustainably, and further 
efforts to control costs are inevitable and essential. Efforts to control 
expenditures should focus on the value, in addition to the costs, of health care 
interventions. Whether an intervention provides high value depends on assessing 
whether its health benefits justify its costs. High-cost interventions may 
provide good value because they are highly beneficial; conversely, low-cost 
interventions may have little or no value if they provide little benefit. Thus, 
the challenge becomes determining how to slow the rate of increase in costs 
while preserving high-value, high-quality care. A first step is to decrease or 
eliminate care that provides no benefit and may even be harmful. A second step 
is to provide medical interventions that provide good value: medical benefits 
that are commensurate with their costs. This article discusses 3 key concepts 
for understanding how to assess the value of health care interventions. First, 
assessing the benefits, harms, and costs of an intervention is essential to 
understand whether it provides good value. Second, assessing the cost of an 
intervention should include not only the cost of the intervention itself but 
also any downstream costs that occur because the intervention was performed. 
Third, the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio estimates the additional cost 
required to obtain additional health benefits and provides a key measure of the 
value of a health care intervention.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-154-3-201102010-00007
PMID: 21282697 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


944. In Vivo. 2011 Jan-Feb;25(1):111-6.

Beck Depression Inventory (BDI) in patients with breast disease and breast 
cancer: a prospective case-control study.

Eskelinen M(1), Ollonen P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Kuopio University Hospital, PL 1777, 70211 Kuopio, 
Finland. matti.eskelinen@kuh.fi

BACKGROUND: In 1972, Beck introduced an inventory (BDI) for rapid screening of 
depression. The associations between the BDI and the risk of breast cancer (BC) 
are rarely considered together in prospective studies.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: In an extension of the Kuopio Breast Cancer Study, 115 
women with breast cancer symptoms were semi-structurally interviewed in-depth as 
well as asked to complete standardised questionnaires (Forsen, Spielberger, 
MADRS), and all study variables were obtained before any diagnostic procedures 
were carried out. BDI was used to evaluate the depression of the study 
participants.
RESULTS: The clinical examinations and biopsies showed BC in 34 patients, benign 
breast disease (BBD) in 53 patients, and 28 individuals were shown to be healthy 
(HSS). There was a trend for the women with HSS to have less sadness (BDI mean 
score, 0.27) than those of the BC (BDI mean score, 0.56) and BBD groups (BDI 
mean score, 0.49). The HSS group tended to be less pessimistic (BDI mean score, 
0.15) than the patients in the BC group (BDI mean score, 0.44) and in the BBD 
group (BDI mean score, 0.42). The HSS group also had less self-accusation (BDI 
mean score, 0.19) than the patients in the BC group (BDI mean score, 0.50) and 
the patients in the BBD group (BDI mean score, 0.62). The HSS group also 
reported less work inhibition and weight loss than the patients in the BC group 
and in the BBD group. The mean sum of the scores of BDI variables was 
significantly lower in the HSS group (BDI mean score, 7.1) than in the BC (BDI 
mean score, 8.4) or BBD groups (BDI mean score, 8.8).
CONCLUSION: The results of this study do not support a specific link between BDI 
and breast cancer risk. However, the patients with BC and BBD tended to have an 
increased risk for depressive symptoms.

PMID: 21282743 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


945. Br J Surg. 2011 Apr;98(4):501-10. doi: 10.1002/bjs.7394. Epub 2011 Jan 31.

Randomized clinical trial of endovenous laser ablation compared with 
conventional surgery for great saphenous varicose veins.

Carradice D(1), Mekako AI, Mazari FA, Samuel N, Hatfield J, Chetter IC.

Author information:
(1)Academic Vascular Surgical Unit, University of Hull, Hull, UK. 
dan1@doctors.org.uk

BACKGROUND: Endovenous laser ablation (EVLA) is a popular minimally invasive 
treatment for varicose veins. Surgical treatment, featuring junctional ligation 
and inversion stripping, has shown excellent clinical and cost effectiveness. 
The clinical effectiveness of both treatments was compared within a randomized 
trial.
METHODS: Some 280 patients were randomized equally into groups receiving either 
surgery or EVLA. Participants had primary, symptomatic, unilateral venous 
insufficiency, with isolated saphenofemoral junction incompetence, leading to 
reflux into the great saphenous vein. Outcomes included: quality of life (QoL), 
Venous Clinical Severity Score (VCSS), pain scores and time taken to return to 
normal function. Owing to the nature of the procedures, blinding was not 
possible.
RESULTS: Both groups had significant improvements in VCSS after treatment (P < 
0.001), which resulted in improved disease-specific QoL (Aberdeen Varicose Vein 
Questionnaire, P < 0.001) and quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gain (P < 
0.001). The pain and disability following surgery impaired normal function, with 
a significant decline in five of eight Short Form 36 (SF-36(®)) domains (P < 
0.001 to P = 0.029). Periprocedural QoL was relatively preserved following EVLA, 
leading to a significant difference between the two treatments in pain scores (P 
< 0.001), six of eight SF-36(®) domains (P = 0.004 to P = 0.049) and QALYs (P = 
0.003). As a result, surgical patients took longer to return to work and normal 
activity (14 versus 4 days; P < 0.001). Complications were rare.
CONCLUSION: EVLA was as effective as surgery for varicose veins, but had a less 
negative impact on early postintervention QoL.
REGISTRATION NUMBER: NCT00759434 (http://www.clinicaltrials.gov).

Copyright © 2011 British Journal of Surgery Society Ltd. Published by John Wiley 
& Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/bjs.7394
PMID: 21283981 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


946. J Med Assoc Thai. 2010 Nov;93 Suppl 6:S35-42.

Developing thai economic model to study cost-effectiveness of switching to 
bupropion compared to combination with bupropion after the failure of an SSRI 
for major depressive disorder.

Leelahanaj T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Neurology, Phramongkutklao Hospital, Bangkok, 
Thailand. pmkdoc@gmail.com

OBJECTIVE: To present an economic model and cost-effectiveness estimates of 
switching to bupropion compared to combination with bupropion after failure of 
an SSRI for major depressive disorder (MDD).
MATERIAL AND METHOD: An economic model was developed to simulate the transitions 
of Thai outpatients with nonpsychotic MDD who had no remission or could not 
tolerate the SSRI citalopram and received either sustained-release bupropion 
monotherapy as switching strategy or sustained-release bupropion plus citalopram 
as combination strategy. Clinical data were obtained form 2 trials of the 
Sequenced Treatment Alternatives to Relieve Depression (STAR*D) study. The four 
event probabilities: remission rates, rates of non-remission, discontinuation 
rates due to intolerance, and incidence of serious adverse events were 
estimated. Direct costs included drug cost, hospitalizations, and 
electroconvulsive therapy (ECT). The primary outcome considered in the model was 
a remission of symptoms. Outputs were measured in terms of costs per remission 
and costs per quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs).
RESULTS: In the base-case analysis, the total direct costs with a bupropion 
switch were 22,937 THB per remission and 29,346 THB per remission with a 
bupropion combination. Compared with combination option, switching to bupropion 
also had lower total cost per QALY (28,672 THB vs. 36,682 THB) and had cost 
saving of 21.8%. The incremental cost-effectiveness of the combination regimen 
compared with the switching regimen was 6,409 THB per remission gained and 8,011 
THB per QALY gained. In a sensitivity analysis, combination strategy dominated 
switching strategy if the value of the transitional probability of remission 
changed to a value of greater than 0.547.
CONCLUSION: The economic model indicated that treatment of MDD patients who fail 
to achieve remission from an SSRI with a switch to bupropion is a 
cost-effectiveness treatment option compared with a combination of SSRI with 
bupropion.

PMID: 21284135 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


947. J Med Assoc Thai. 2010 Nov;93 Suppl 6:S43-50.

The cost-effectiveness of aripiprazole as adjunctive therapy in major depressive 
disorder: Thai economic model.

Leelahanaj T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Neurology, Phramongkutklao Hospital, Bangkok, 
Thailand. pmkdoc@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: Aripiprazole is the first atypical antipsychotic approved for 
adjunctive treatment to antidepressant therapy in patients with major depressive 
disorder (MDD). The current study aims to present an economic model and 
cost-effectiveness estimates for aripiprazole compared with placebo as 
adjunctive therapy to antidepressant treatment in patients with MDD who showed 
an incomplete response to a prospective 8-week trial of antidepressant therapy.
MATERIAL AND METHOD: An economic model of MDD treatment was developed to 
estimate the clinical and economic outcomes in Thai patients. Efficacy data were 
derived from a pooled analysis of two studies. A cost-effectiveness analysis was 
constructed in simulate the impact of treatment outcomes and costs over a 6-week 
time horizon. The primary outcome of the model was remission of symptoms. 
Quality-adjusted life-year (QALYs) was the secondary outcome. The event 
probabilities were used to derive the transitional probability used in the model 
and to calculate the weighted cost of each treatment outcome. Only direct costs 
were considered. One-way sensitivity analysis was performed to test the 
sensitivity of the model outputs.
RESULTS: Treatment with aripiprazole came at the total costs per remission of 
30,970 Baht while treatment with placebo came at the total costs per remission 
of 28,409 Baht. Placebo had lower total costs per QALY than aripiprazole (35,511 
Baht vs. 38,713 Baht). The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of 
augmentation with aripiprazole compared with placebo was 2,561 Baht per 
remission gained and 3,201 Baht per QALY gained. Aripiprazole dominated placebo 
if the value of transitional probability of remission changed to a value of 
greater than 0.348 from the base-case value of 0.257. Aripiprazole was more 
cost-effective than placebo as adjunctive therapy if the unit cost of 
aripiprazole is more than 48.9% discount.
CONCLUSIONS: Adjunctive aripiprazole is not more cost-effective than adjunctive 
placebo in Thai patients with MDD who showed an inadequate response to at least 
one prospective antidepressant therapy. Remission rates and unit cost are the 
key parameters involving the cost-effectiveness of aripiprazole.

PMID: 21284136 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


948. Int J Clin Pract. 2011 Mar;65(3):253-63. doi:
10.1111/j.1742-1241.2011.02633.x.  Epub 2011 Feb 1.

Comparative clinical- and cost-effectiveness of candesartan and losartan in the 
management of hypertension and heart failure: a systematic review, meta- and 
cost-utility analysis.

Grosso AM(1), Bodalia PN, Macallister RJ, Hingorani AD, Moon JC, Scott MA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, University College London Hospital, London, UK. 
anthony.grosso@uclh.nhs.uk

Comment in
    Int J Clin Pract. 2011 Mar;65(3):242-4.
    Int J Clin Pract. 2011 Mar;65(3):240-2.
    Int J Clin Pract. 2011 Aug;65(8):911; author reply 912.

The UK National Health Service (NHS) currently spends in excess of £250 million 
per annum on angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) for the treatment of 
hypertension and heart failure; with candesartan currently dominating the 
market. With the recent introduction of generic losartan, we set out to directly 
compare the branded market leader to its now cheaper alternative. The primary 
objectives were to compare the blood pressure (BP) lowering efficacy and 
cardiovascular outcomes of candesartan and losartan in the treatment of 
essential hypertension and chronic heart failure, respectively. The secondary 
objective was to model their comparative incremental cost-effectiveness in a UK 
NHS setting. The Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (Cochrane 
Library 2009, issue 2), which contains the Hypertension and Heart Group's 
specialist register, Medline (1950-February 2010), and Embase (1980-February 
2010) were included in the search strategy. Selection criteria were randomised 
studies of candesartan versus losartan in adults (> 18 years). The main outcome 
measures were as follows: Hypertension: mean change from baseline in trough (24 
h postdose) systolic and diastolic BP. Heart failure: composite of 
cardiovascular death and hospital admission for management of heart failure. Two 
reviewers applied inclusion criteria, assessed trial quality, and extracted 
data. Eight (three of which met inclusion criteria) and zero trials compared 
candesartan directly with losartan in the treatment of hypertension and heart 
failure, respectively. A between-treatment difference of -1.96 mmHg [95% 
confidence interval (CI) -2.40 to -1.51] for trough diastolic BP and -3.00 mmHg 
(95% CI -3.79 to -2.22) for trough systolic BP in favour of candesartan was 
observed. Based on this differential, a 10-year Markov model estimates the cost 
per quality-adjusted life-year gained to exceed £40,000 for using candesartan in 
place of generic losartan. Candesartan reduces BP to a slightly greater extent 
when compared with losartan, however, such difference is unlikely to be 
cost-effective based on current acquisition costs, perceived NHS affordability 
thresholds and use of combination regimens. We could find no robust evidence 
supporting the superiority of candesartan over losartan in the treatment of 
heart failure. We therefore recommend using generic losartan as the ARB of 
choice which could save the UK NHS approximately £200 million per annum in drug 
costs.

© 2011 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1742-1241.2011.02633.x
PMID: 21284790 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


949. Psychiatr Serv. 2011 Feb;62(2):223-4. doi: 10.1176/ps.62.2.pss6202_0223a.

Race, mental illness, and premature mortality: double jeopardy?

Piatt EE.

DOI: 10.1176/ps.62.2.pss6202_0223a
PMID: 21285107 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


950. Br Med Bull. 2011;97:197-210. doi: 10.1093/bmb/ldr001. Epub 2011 Jan 31.

Health outcomes in economic evaluation: who should value health?

Stamuli E(1).

Author information:
(1)Health Economics, York Trials Unit, Department of Health Sciences, University 
of York, UK. eugena.stamuli@york.ac.uk

The valuation of health states is an integral part of economic evaluation 
studies. The source of these valuations (general public vs. patients) is 
surrounded by controversy. Health state values generated by the general public 
are often different compared with those of patients. General public values may 
not account for adaptation of the patients; patients' values potentially 
incorporate self-interest. Decisions on the appropriate source of health values 
ultimately depend on the specific decision-making context and objectives of the 
evaluation. Differences in valuations and implications for decision-making 
should be explicitly addressed. Further research should systematically identify 
circumstances in which public and patients' valuations diverge. There appears 
ground for development of methods that allow the simultaneous incorporation of 
patients and public preferences. Existing literature which discusses the issues 
around the health state valuation is summarized.

DOI: 10.1093/bmb/ldr001
PMID: 21285110 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


951. J Aging Phys Act. 2011 Jan;19(1):30-47. doi: 10.1123/japa.19.1.30.

Adherence to physical activity recommendations in older adults: an Israeli 
national survey.

Netz Y(1), Goldsmith R, Shimony T, Ben-Moshe Y, Zeev A.

Author information:
(1)Zinman College of Physical Education and Sport Sciences, Wingate Institute, 
Israel.

The trend of extended life expectancy along with a sedentary lifestyle is 
typical in Western cultures.
OBJECTIVE: To explore adherence to physical activity recommendations in older 
adults in Israel.
METHODS: A random sample of 1,536 Jews and 316 Arabs age 65+ were interviewed 
and divided into sufficiently active, insufficiently active, and inactive groups 
based on official guidelines.
RESULTS: Only 36.4% of the Jewish sector and 19.6% of the Arab sector are 
sufficiently active. Men are more active than women, the secular are more active 
than the religious among both Jews and Arabs, and more years of education, a 
higher income, and fewer diseases and medications are related to higher levels 
of physical activity.
DISCUSSION: To slow down biological age decline with physical activity, 
intervention programs specifically tailored for culturally diverse groups are 
suggested-for example, recruiting prominent religious leaders to promote 
physical activity in religious populations.

DOI: 10.1123/japa.19.1.30
PMID: 21285474 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


952. Can Fam Physician. 1982 May;28:935-40.

What do studies of exercise and cardiovascular mortality tell us?

Baker RA.

Studies of exercise and cardiovascular mortality were reviewed to determine 
whether leisure-time or work activity affects mortality. Twenty-one prospective 
cohort and 12 rehabilitation case-control studies were reviewed based on 
epidemiological criteria. Most studies suffered from design deficits.Based on 
available information, physicians' recommendations about exercise should not 
include the possibility of increased life expectancy.

PMCID: PMC2306415
PMID: 21286101


953. Nervenarzt. 2011 Feb;82(2):145-6, 148-50, 152. doi:
10.1007/s00115-010-3110-9.

[Development of mortality and morbidity of vascular diseases: variations between 
coronary heart disease and stroke].

[Article in German]

Heuschmann PU(1), Neuhauser HK, Endres M.

Author information:
(1)Centrum für Schlaganfallforschung Berlin (CSB), Charité - Universitätsmedizin 
Berlin, Campus Mitte, Berlin, Deutschland. peter.heuschmann@charite.de

INTRODUCTION: Cardiovascular diseases represent a central challenge for our 
health care system because of their individual and societal consequences. The 
manuscript compares the current development of mortality and morbidity of 
coronary heart disease and stroke in Germany.
RESULTS: Coronary heart diseases are one of the leading causes of death and one 
of the major causes for adult disability. In Germany the average life expectancy 
has increased by more then 2 years per decade within recent years. The greatest 
contribution to the increase in life expectancy between 1980 and 2002 in Germany 
was attributed in previous studies to the decline in mortality rates of 
cardiovascular diseases; for example in Germany 134,648 persons died in 2008 
from coronary heart disease (ICD-10 I20-I25) and 63,060 persons from stroke 
(ICD-10 I60-I64) compared to 178,759 persons and 90,241 persons in 1998, 
respectively. Statistical models from other countries estimated that the 
decrease in coronary heart disease mortality is attributed by about 40% to 
better treatment and by about 60% to changes in risk factors in the population. 
Comparable data for stroke are lacking.
CONCLUSION: Despite the substantial knowledge on cardiovascular diseases in 
Germany a continuous and timely documentation of their determinants, time trends 
of risk factors and impact regarding mortality and morbidity is compulsory to 
assess the effectiveness of initiated population health measures and to identify 
future options for improving prevention and treatment of cardiovascular diseases 
in Germany.

DOI: 10.1007/s00115-010-3110-9
PMID: 21286677 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


954. Proteins. 2011 Mar;79(3):1010-9. doi: 10.1002/prot.22942. Epub 2011 Jan 5.

The structure of the ends of α-helices in globular proteins: effect of 
additional hydrogen bonds and implications for helix formation.

Leader DP(1), Milner-White EJ.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biomedical and Life Sciences, University of Glasgow, Glasgow G12 
8QQ, United Kingdom. david.leader@glasgow.ac.uk

We prepared a set of about 2000 α-helices from a relational database of 
high-resolution three-dimensional structures of globular proteins, and 
identified additional main chain i ← i+3 hydrogen bonds at the ends of the 
helices (i.e., where the hydrogen bonding potential is not fulfilled by 
canonical i ← i+4 hydrogen bonds). About one-third of α-helices have such 
additional hydrogen bonds at the N-terminus, and more than half do so at the 
C-terminus. Although many of these additional hydrogen bonds at the C-terminus 
are associated with Schellman loops, the majority are not. We compared the 
dihedral angles at the termini of α-helices having or lacking the additional 
hydrogen bonds. Significant differences were found, especially at the 
C-terminus, where the dihedral angles at positions C2 and C1 in the absence of 
additional hydrogen bonds deviate substantially from those occurring within the 
α-helix. Using a novel approach we show how the structure of the C-terminus of 
the α-helix can emerge from that of constituent overlapping α-turns and β-turns, 
which individually show a variation in dihedral angles at different positions. 
We have also considered the direction of propagation of the α-helix using this 
approach. If one assumes that helices start as a single α-turn and grow by 
successive addition of further α-turns, the paths for growth in the N → C and C 
→ N directions differ in a way that suggests that extension in the C → N 
direction is favored.

Copyright © 2010 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/prot.22942
PMID: 21287629 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


955. Lakartidningen. 2010 Dec 1-7;107(48):3048-51.

[The aging population. Continuing increase of average longevity is a 
controversial and exciting question].

[Article in Swedish]

Ahlbom A(1), Drefahl S, Lundström H.

Author information:
(1)Institutet för miljömedicin, Karolinska institutet, Stockholm. 
anders.ahlbom@ki.se

PMID: 21287750 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


956. J Med Econ. 2011;14(2):167-78. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2011.554932. Epub 2011
Feb  2.

Cost effectiveness of atazanavir-ritonavir versus lopinavir-ritonavir in 
treatment-naïve human immunodeficiency virus-infected patients in the United 
States.

Broder MS(1), Chang EY, Bentley TG, Juday T, Uy J.

Author information:
(1)Partnership for Health Analytic Research, Beverly Hills, CA, USA. 
mbroder@pharllc.com

Erratum in
    J Med Econ. 2011;14(4):410.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate lifetime cost effectiveness of atazanavir-ritonavir 
(ATV + r) versus lopinavir-ritonavir (LPV/r), both with tenofovir-emtricitabine, 
in US HIV-infected patients initiating first-line antiretroviral therapy.
METHODS: A Markov microsimulation model was developed to calculate 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) based on CD4 and HIV RNA levels, coronary 
heart disease (CHD), AIDS, opportunistic infections (OIs), diarrhea, and 
hyperbilirubinemia. A million-member cohort of HIV-1-infected, treatment-naïve 
adults progressed at 3-month intervals through eight health states. Baseline 
characteristics, virologic suppression, cholesterol changes, and diarrhea and 
hyperbilirubinemia rates were based on 96-week CASTLE trial results. HIV 
mortality, OI rates, adherence, costs, utilities, and CHD risk were from 
literature and experts.
LIMITATIONS: The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) may be 
overestimated because the ATV + r treatment effect was based on an 
intention-to-treat analysis. The QALY weights used for diarrhea, 
hyperbilirubinemia, and CHD events are uncertain; however, the ICER remained < 
$50,000/QALY when these values were varied in sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: ATV + r patients received first-line therapy longer than LPV/r patients 
(97.3 vs. 70.7 months), had longer quality-adjusted survival (11.02 vs. 10.76 
years), similar overall survival (18.52 vs. 18.51 years), and higher costs 
($275,986 vs. 269,160). ATV+r [corrected] patients had lower rates of AIDS 
(19.08 vs. 20.05 cases/1000 patient-years), OIs (0.44 vs.0.52), diarrhea (1.27 
vs. 6.26), and CHD events(5.44 vs. 5.51), but higher hyperbilirubinemia rates 
(6.99 vs. 0.25. ATV + r added 0.26 QALYs at a cost of $6826, for $26,421/QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: By more effectively reducing viral load with less gastrointestinal 
toxicity and a better lipid profile, ATV + r lowered rates of AIDS and CHD, 
increased quality-adjusted survival, and was cost effective (< $50,000/QALY) 
compared with LPV/r.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2011.554932
PMID: 21288058 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


957. Genetics. 2011 Apr;187(4):1235-40. doi: 10.1534/genetics.111.126797. Epub
2011  Feb 1.

A screenable in vivo assay to study proteostasis networks in Caenorhabditis 
elegans.

Segref A(1), Torres S, Hoppe T.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Genetics and Cologne Excellence Cluster on Cellular Stress 
Responses in Aging-Associated Diseases, University of Cologne, 50674 Cologne, 
Germany.

In eukaryotic cells, the ubiquitin/proteasome system (UPS) is a key determinant 
of proteostasis as it regulates the turnover of damaged proteins. However, it is 
still unclear how the UPS integrates intrinsic and environmental challenges to 
promote organismal development and survival. Here, we set up an in vivo 
degradation assay to facilitate the genetic identification of 
ubiquitin-dependent proteolysis pathways in the multicellular organism 
Caenorhabditis elegans. Using this assay, we found that mild induction of 
protein-folding stress, which is nontoxic for wild-type worms, strongly reduces 
ubiquitin-dependent protein turnover. Ubiquitin-mediated degradation is also 
reduced by metabolic stress, which correlates with life-span extension. Unlike 
other stress conditions, however, acute heat stress results in enhanced rather 
than reduced proteolysis. Intriguingly, our study provides the first evidence 
for the existence of tissue-specific degradation requirements because loss of 
key regulators of the UPS, such as proteasomal subunits, causes accumulation of 
the model substrate, depending on the tissue type. Thus, here we establish a 
screenable degradation assay that allows diverse genetic screening approaches 
for the identification of novel cell-type-specific proteostasis networks 
important for developmental processes, stress response, and aging, thereby 
substantially extending the work on recently described mechanistic UPS reporter 
studies.

DOI: 10.1534/genetics.111.126797
PMCID: PMC3070531
PMID: 21288877 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


958. Am J Clin Nutr. 2011 Apr;93(4):875S-83. doi: 10.3945/ajcn.110.001909. Epub
2011  Feb 2.

Energy, evolution, and human diseases: an overview.

Roth J(1), Szulc AL, Danoff A.

Author information:
(1)Feinstein Institute for Medical Research, Elmezzi Graduate School of 
Molecular Medicine, North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System, Manhasset, NY, 
USA. jesserothmd@hotmail.com

In the symposium entitled "Transcriptional controls of energy sensing," the 
authors presented recent advances on 1) AMP kinase, an intracellular energy 
sensor; 2) PGC-1α (peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ co-activator 
1α), a transcriptional co-activator that has powerful effects on mitochondria; 
3) methylation and demethylation in response to metabolic fluctuations; and 4) 
FGF21 (fibroblast growth factor 21) as an emerging hormone-like intercellular 
metabolic coordinator. This introduction places these advances within a broad 
overview of energy sensing and energy balance, with a focus on human evolution 
and disease. Four key elements of human biology are analyzed: 1) elevated body 
temperature; 2) complex prolonged reproductive pathways; 3) emergence of 4 
large, well-defined fat depots, each with its own functional role; and 4) an 
immune system that is often up-regulated by nutrition-related signals, 
independent of the actual presence of a pathogen. We propose that an overactive 
immune system, including the "metabolic syndrome," was adopted evolutionarily in 
the distant past to help hold out against unconquerable infections such as 
tuberculosis, malaria, and trypanosomiasis. This immune activation is 
advantageous in the absence of other disease management methods, especially 
under conditions in which life expectancy is short. The inflammation has become 
a major agent of pathology in wealthy populations in whom the pathogens are a 
minor threat and life expectancy is long. The "Conclusions" section sketches 
cautiously how understanding the molecules involved in energy sensing and energy 
balance may lead to specific therapies for obesity and diabetes and for their 
complications.

DOI: 10.3945/ajcn.110.001909
PMID: 21289219 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


959. Clin Pharmacol Ther. 2011 Mar;89(3):429-36. doi: 10.1038/clpt.2010.350. Epub
 2011 Feb 2.

Can modeling of health outcomes facilitate regulatory decision making? The 
benefit-risk tradeoff for rosiglitazone in 1999 vs. 2007.

Cross JT(1), Veenstra DL, Gardner JS, Garrison LP Jr.

Author information:
(1)Pharmaceutical Outcomes Research and Policy Program, School of Pharmacy, 
University of Washington, Seattle, Washington, USA.

Rosiglitazone was initially approved for type 2 diabetes monotherapy. We tested 
health-outcomes modeling as an aid to regulatory decision making by quantifying 
the incremental net benefit (INB) value of rosiglitazone (relative to a 
comparator), both at the time of first approval (1999) and at the FDA advisory 
committee review (2007). Using 1999 data, rosiglitazone was projected to provide 
an additional 0.639 years of life (0.373 quality-adjusted life years (QALYs)) 
relative to placebo but a loss of 0.312 years (0.173 QALYs) relative to 
glyburide, with uncertainty in reduction of hemoglobin A(1c) (HbA(1c)) level 
having the greatest impact on the benefit-risk profile. By 2007, rosiglitazone 
was projected to provide an additional 0.222 years (0.091 QALYs) vs. glyburide 
and 0.026 years vs. metformin (0.009 QALYs). Modeling suggested that the use of 
rosiglitazone as monotherapy was not initially warranted, given the uncertainty 
with regard to benefit. Despite similar net benefit (NB) as metformin shown in 
postmarketing data, residual cardiovascular (CV) concerns did not support the 
use of rosiglitazone as first-line therapy. We adapted a mathematical diabetes 
model to estimate NB and uncertainty of diabetes monotherapy.

DOI: 10.1038/clpt.2010.350
PMID: 21289618 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


960. J Multidiscip Healthc. 2010 Nov 19;3:201-12. doi: 10.2147/JMDH.S8878.

Physiotherapeutic management strategies for the treatment of cystic fibrosis in 
adults.

Daniels T(1).

Author information:
(1)York Hospitals NHS Trust Cystic Fibrosis Unit, York Teaching Hospitals 
Foundation NHS Trust, York, UK.

Physiotherapy has long been considered a cornerstone of condition management for 
people with cystic fibrosis (CF). The presentation of CF has changed over time 
with an increased life expectancy and increased expectations of people with CF 
to have a complete lifestyle. In turn, the scope of strategies used in 
physiotherapy for CF have also changed dramatically over the years, moving away 
from routine postural drainage and manual techniques toward an individualized 
regimen including the choice of many different forms of airway clearance, such 
as both independent and assisted, exercise, treatments to promote continence and 
good posture, inhalation therapy, oxygen, and noninvasive ventilation. This 
article describes the techniques and overall strategies used by physiotherapists 
in helping people with CF to manage the symptoms and progression of their 
condition.

DOI: 10.2147/JMDH.S8878
PMCID: PMC3024890
PMID: 21289861961. GMS Health Technol Assess. 2010 Apr 27;6:Doc05. doi: 10.3205/hta000083.

Decision-analytic modeling to evaluate the long-term effectiveness and 
cost-effectiveness of HPV-DNA testing in primary cervical cancer screening in 
Germany.

Sroczynski G(1), Schnell-Inderst P, Mühlberger N, Lang K, Aidelsburger P, Wasem 
J, Mittendorf T, Engel J, Hillemanns P, Petry KU, Krämer A, Siebert U.

Author information:
(1)UMIT - University for Health Sciences, Medical Informatics and Technology, 
Department of Public Health, Information Systems and Health Technology 
Assessment, Hall i. T., Austria.

BACKGROUND: Persistent infections with high-risk types of human papillomavirus 
(HPV) are associated with the development of cervical neoplasia. Compared to 
cytology HPV testing is more sensitive in detecting high-grade cervical cancer 
precursors, but with lower specificity. HPV based primary screening for cervical 
cancer is currently discussed in Germany. Decisions should be based on a 
systematic evaluation of the long-term effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of 
HPV based primary screening.
RESEARCH QUESTIONS: What is the long-term clinical effectiveness (reduction in 
lifetime risk of cervical cancer and death due to cervical cancer, life years 
gained) of HPV testing and what is the cost-effectiveness in Euro per life year 
gained (LYG) of including HPV testing in primary cervical cancer screening in 
the German health care context? How can the screening program be improved with 
respect to test combination, age at start and end of screening and screening 
interval and which recommendations should be made for the German health care 
context?
METHODS: A previously published and validated decision-analytic model for the 
German health care context was extended and adapted to the natural history of 
HPV infection and cervical cancer in order to evaluate different screening 
strategies that differ by screening interval, and tests, including cytology 
alone, HPV testing alone or in combination with cytology, and HPV testing with 
cytology triage for HPV-positive women. German clinical, epidemiological and 
economic data were used. In the absence of individual data, screening adherence 
was modelled independently from screening history. Test accuracy data were 
retrieved from international meta-analyses. Predicted outcomes included 
reduction in lifetime-risk for cervical cancer cases and deaths, life 
expectancy, lifetime costs, and discounted incremental cost-effectiveness ratios 
(ICER). The perspective of the third party payer and 3% annual discount rate 
were adopted. Extensive sensitivity analyses were performed in order to evaluate 
the robustness of results and identify areas of future research.
RESULTS: In the base case analysis screening resulted in a 53% to 97% risk 
reduction for cervical cancer with a discounted ICER between 2,600 Euro/LYG 
(cytology alone every five years) and 155,500 Euro/LYG (Annual cytology age 20 
to 29 years, and annual HPV age 30 years and older). Annual cytology, the 
current recommended screening strategy in Germany, was dominated. In sensitivity 
analyses variation in the relative increase in the sensitivity of HPV testing as 
compared to cytology, HPV test costs, screening adherence, HPV incidence, and 
annual discount rate influenced the ICER results. Variation in the screening 
start age also influenced the ICER. All cytology strategies were dominated by 
HPV screening strategies, when relative sensitivity increase by HPV testing 
compared to cytology was higher (scenario analysis with data for test accuracy 
from German studies). HPV testing every one, two or three years was more 
effective than annual cytology. With increased screening adherence a longer 
screening interval and with low screening adherence a shorter interval would be 
more cost-effective. With a reduction in HPV incidence of more than 70% 
triennial HPV screening in women aged 30 years and older (and biennial Pap 
screening in women aged 20 to 29 years) is cost-effective. The discounted ICER 
increases with increasing annual discount rate. Increasing screening start age 
to 25 years had no relevant loss in effectiveness but resulted in lower costs. 
An optimal strategy may be biennial HPV testing age 30 years and older with 
biennial cytology at age 25 to 29 years (ICER of 23,400 Euro/LYG).
CONCLUSIONS: Based on these results, HPV-based cervical cancer screening is more 
effective than cytology and could be cost-effective if performed at intervals of 
two years or greater. Increasing the age at screening start to 25 years causes 
no relevant loss in effectiveness but saves resources. In the German context an 
optimal screening strategy could be biennial HPV testing at age 30 years and 
older with biennial cytology at the age of 25 to 29 years. An extension to a 
three-yearly screening interval requires substantially improved screening 
adherence or a higher relative increase in the sensitivity of HPV testing as 
compared to cytology. The implementation of an organised screening program for 
quality-controlled introduction of HPV-screening and -vaccination with continued 
systematic outcome evaluation is recommended.

HINTERGRUND: Eine persistente Infektion mit einem Hochrisikotyp des Humanen 
Papillomavirus (HPV) ist mit der Entwicklung von Zervixkrebs und seinen 
Vorstufen assoziiert. Die HPV-DNA-Diagnostik (DNA = Desoxyribonukleinsäure) 
erzielte in Studien eine höhere Sensitivität als die aktuell eingesetzte 
Zytologie, jedoch eine geringere Spezifität. Ihr Einsatz als 
Primärscreeningverfahren in der Zervixkarzinomfrüherkennung wird aktuell 
diskutiert. Eine systematische Evaluation der Langzeit-Effektivität und 
Kosten-Effektivität der HPV-DNA-Diagnostik allein oder in Kombination mit der 
Zytologie als Primärscreeningverfahren in der Zervixkarzinomfrüherkennung für 
den Kontext des deutschen Gesundheitssystems sollte erfolgen.
FORSCHUNGSFRAGEN: Wie sind die medizinische Langzeit-Effektivität (Reduktion des 
Lebenszeitrisikos für Zervixkarzinom und Mortalität durch Zervixkarzinom, 
gewonnene Lebenserwartung) und Kosten-Effektivität (Euro pro gewonnenes 
Lebensjahr [LJ]) der HPV-DNA-Diagnostik als Primärscreeningverfahren in der 
Zervixkarzinomfrüherkennung im Kontext des deutschen Gesundheitssystems zu 
bewerten? Wie kann die Screeningstrategie bezüglich der Testkombination, oberen 
und unteren Altersgrenzen und dem Screeningintervall optimiert werden. Welche 
Empfehlungen sind hieraus für den deutschen Kontext abzuleiten?
METHODIK: Ein für den Kontext des deutschen Gesundheitssystems publiziertes und 
validiertes entscheidungsanalytisches Modell wird für den natürlichen 
Krankeitsverlauf der HPV-Infektion und der Zervixkarzinomentwicklung erweitert 
und adaptiert, um verschiedene Screeningstrategien, die sich hinsichtlich der 
Screeningintervalle und der Algorithmen der Testverfahren unterscheiden, zu 
evaluieren. Es werden Zytologie allein, HPV-Screening allein oder in Kombination 
mit der Zytologie sowie HPV-Screening mit zytologischer Triage von HPV-positiven 
Frauen evaluiert. Deutsche klinische, epidemiologische und ökonomische Daten 
gehen in das Modell ein. Mangels individueller Daten zur Teilnahmerate in 
Deutschland wird diese unabhängig von der Geschichte der 
Screeninginanspruchnahme modelliert. Daten zur Testgüte werden internationalen 
Metaanalysen entnommen. Zielparameter der Analysen sind die Reduktion des 
Lebenszeitrisikos für Zervixkrebs und Tod durch Zervixkrebs, 
Restlebenserwartung, Lebenszeitkosten und das diskontierte inkrementelle 
Kosten-Effektivitäts-Verhältnis (IKEV). Es wird die Perspektive des 
Kostenträgers eingenommen und eine jährliche Diskontierung von 3% gewählt. Zur 
Untersuchung der Robustheit der Analyseergebnisse und zur Identifikation von 
weiterem Forschungsbedarf werden umfangreiche Sensitivitätsanalysen 
durchgeführt.
ERGEBNISSE: In der Basisfallanalyse erzielt Screening im Vergleich zu keinem 
Screening eine Reduktion des Zervixkrebsrisikos von 53% bis 97%. Die 
diskontierten IKEV liegen zwischen 2.600 Euro/LJ (Zytologie allein alle fünf 
Jahre) und 155.500 Euro/LJ (für jährliche Zytologie im Alter von 20 bis 29 
Jahren und jährliches HPV-Screening ab dem Alter von 30 Jahren). Die jährliche 
Zytologie, wie derzeit in Deutschland empfohlen, wird von anderen 
Screeningstrategien dominiert. In Sensitivitätsanalysen zeigt sich ein Einfluss 
von relativer Sensitivitätserhöhung des HPV-Tests versus Zytologie, 
HPV-Testkosten, Teilnahmerate, HPV-Inzidenz und der jährlichen Diskontrate auf 
die Analyseergebnisse. Auch das Alter bei Screeningbeginn beeinflusste die 
Ergebnisse. In der Szenarioanalyse mit Testgütekriteriendaten aus deutschen 
Studien (niedrigere relative Sensitivität von Pap- versus HPV-Test) werden alle 
Zytologiestrategien von HPV-Screeningstrategien dominiert. HPV-Screening im 1-, 
2- oder 3-Jahres-Intervall ist effektiver als jährliche Zytologie. Bei höherer 
Teilnahmerate könnte ein längeres, bei niedriger Teilnahmerate ein kürzeres 
Screeningintervall sinnvoller und kosteneffektiver sein. Bei einer Reduktion der 
HPV-Inzidenz um mehr als 70% ist ein dreijährliches HPV-Screening ab einem Alter 
von 30 Jahren und zweijährliche Zytologie im Alter von 20 bis 29 Jahren 
kosteneffektiv. Mit steigender Diskontrate nimmt das IKEV der verschiedenen 
Strategien zu. Die Erhöhung des Alters für den Screeningbeginn auf 25 Jahre hat 
keinen relevanten Effektivitätsverlust zur Folge und reduziert den 
Ressourcenverbrauch. Mit einem IKEV von 23.400 Euro/LJ könnte das HPV-Screening 
ab einem Alter von 30 Jahren und Zytologie im Alter von 25 bis 29 Jahren jeweils 
im 2-Jahres-Intervall unter Berücksichtigung von Effektivität und 
Kosten-Effektivität die optimale Strategie sein.
SCHLUSSFOLGERUNGEN: Auf der Grundlage der Analyseergebnisse dieses HTA-Berichts 
ist das HPV-basierte Zervixkrebsscreening effektiver als die Zytologie und als 
kosteneffektiv zu bewerten, wenn es je nach gesellschaftlicher 
Zahlungsbereitschaft mit Screeningintervallen von zwei oder mehr Jahren 
durchgeführt wird. Die Erhöhung des Alters für den Screeningbeginn auf 25 Jahre 
hat keinen relevanten Effektivitätsverlust zur Folge, spart aber Ressourcen. Für 
den deutschen Screeningkontext könnte HPV-Screening ab einem Alter von 30 Jahren 
und Zytologie im Alter von 25 bis 29 Jahren jeweils im 
2-Jahres-Screeningintervall eine optimale Strategie sein. Eine Verlängerung des 
Screeningintervalls auf drei Jahre wäre nur bei einer hohen 
Screeningteilnahmerate oder einer größeren relativen Sensitivitätserhöhung durch 
den HPV-Test versus Zytologie sinnvoll. Die Einführung eines organisierten 
Screeningprogramms für eine qualitätskontrollierte Einführung von HPV-Screening 
mit kontinuierlicher systematischer Prozessüberwachung und Ergebnisevaluation 
wird empfohlen.

DOI: 10.3205/hta000083
PMCID: PMC3010885
PMID: 21289878


962. GMS Health Technol Assess. 2010 Jun 14;6:Doc08. doi: 10.3205/hta000086.

Invasive home mechanical ventilation, mainly focused on neuromuscular disorders.

Geiseler J(1), Karg O, Börger S, Becker K, Zimolong A.

Author information:
(1)Centre of pneumology and thoracic surgery, Asklepios Hospital Gauting, 
Department of intensive-care medicine and long-term ventilation, Gauting, 
Germany.

INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND: Invasive home mechanical ventilation is used for 
patients with chronic respiratory insufficiency. This elaborate and 
technology-dependent ventilation is carried out via an artificial airway 
(tracheal cannula) to the trachea. Exact numbers about the incidence of home 
mechanical ventilation are not available. Patients with neuromuscular diseases 
represent a large portion of it.
RESEARCH QUESTIONS: Specific research questions are formulated and answered 
concerning the dimensions of medicine/nursing, economics, social, ethical and 
legal aspects. Beyond the technical aspect of the invasive home, mechanical 
ventilation, medical questions also deal with the patient's symptoms and 
clinical signs as well as the frequency of complications. Economic questions 
pertain to the composition of costs and the differences to other ways of 
homecare concerning costs and quality of care. Questions regarding social 
aspects consider the health-related quality of life of patients and caregivers. 
Additionally, the ethical aspects connected to the decision of home mechanical 
ventilation are viewed. Finally, legal aspects of financing invasive home 
mechanical ventilation are discussed.
METHODS: Based on a systematic literature search in 2008 in a total of 31 
relevant databases current literature is viewed and selected by means of fixed 
criteria. Randomized controlled studies, systematic reviews and HTA reports 
(health technology assessment), clinical studies with patient numbers above ten, 
health-economic evaluations, primary studies with particular cost analyses and 
quality-of-life studies related to the research questions are included in the 
analysis.
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION: Invasive mechanical ventilation may improve symptoms of 
hypoventilation, as the analysis of the literature shows. An increase in life 
expectancy is likely, but for ethical reasons it is not confirmed by 
premium-quality studies. Complications (e. g. pneumonia) are rare. Mobile home 
ventilators are available for the implementation of the ventilation. Their 
technical performance however, differs regrettably. Studies comparing the 
economic aspects of ventilation in a hospital to outpatient ventilation, 
describe home ventilation as a more cost-effective alternative to in-patient 
care in an intensive care unit, however, more expensive in comparison to a 
noninvasive (via mask) ventilation. Higher expenses arise due to the necessary 
equipment and the high expenditure of time for the partial 24-hour care of the 
affected patients through highly qualified personnel. However, none of the 
studies applies to the German provisionary conditions. The calculated costs 
strongly depend on national medical fees and wages of caregivers, which barely 
allows a transmission of the results. The results of quality-of-life studies are 
mostly qualitative. The patient's quality of life using mechanical ventilation 
is predominantly considered well. Caregivers of ventilated patients report 
positive as well as negative ratings. Regarding the ethical questions, it was 
researched which aspects of ventilation implementation will have to be 
considered. From a legal point of view the financing of home ventilation, 
especially invasive mechanical ventilation, requiring specialised technical 
nursing is regulated in the code of social law (Sozialgesetzbuch V). The 
absorption of costs is distributed to different insurance carriers, who often, 
due to cost pressures within the health care system, insurance carriers, who 
consider others and not themselves as responsible. Therefore in practice, the 
necessity to enforce a claim of cost absorption often arises in order to 
exercise the basic right of free choice of location.
CONCLUSION: Positive effects of the invasive mechanical ventilation (overall 
survival and symptomatic) are highly probable based on the analysed literature, 
although with a low level of evidence. An establishment of a home ventilation 
registry and health care research to ascertain valid data to improve outpatient 
structures is necessary. Gathering specific German data is needed to adequately 
depict the national concepts of provision and reimbursement. A differentiation 
of the cost structure according to the type of chosen outpatient care is 
currently not possible. There is no existing literature concerning the 
difference of life quality depending on the chosen outpatient care (homecare, 
assisted living, or in a nursing home specialised in invasive home ventilation). 
Further research is required. For a so called participative decision - made by 
the patient after intense counselling - an early and honest patient education 
pro respectively contra invasive mechanical ventilation is needed. Besides the 
long term survival, the quality of life and individual, social and religious 
aspects have also to be considered.

EINLEITUNG UND HINTERGRUND: Die invasive Heimbeatmung wird bei Patienten mit 
chronisch respiratorischer Insuffizienz (unzureichender Atemfähigkeit) 
durchgeführt. Die aufwendige und technologielastige Beatmung erfolgt über einen 
künstlichen Zugang (Trachealkanüle) zur Luftröhre. Genaue Zahlen über die 
Häufigkeit dieser Form von Beatmung in häuslicher Umgebung liegen nicht vor. 
Patienten mit neuromuskulären Erkrankungen machen einen großen Anteil aus.
FORSCHUNGSFRAGEN: Zu unterschiedlichen Dimensionen Medizin/Pflege, Ökonomie, 
Soziales, Ethik und Recht werden spezifische Forschungsfragen formuliert und 
beantwortet. Medizinische Fragen behandeln neben technischen Aspekten der 
häuslichen invasiven Beatmung, die Symptomatik bzw. die klinischen Befunde der 
Patienten sowie die Häufigkeit von Komplikationen. Ökonomische Fragestellungen 
beziehen sich auf die Zusammensetzung der Kosten und die Unterschiede zu anderen 
Versorgungsformen bezüglich Kosten und Qualität der Pflege. Fragestellungen zu 
sozialen Aspekten berücksichtigen die gesundheitsbezogene Lebensqualität der 
Patienten und Betreuungspersonen. Zusätzlich werden die mit der Entscheidung zu 
Heimbeatmung verbundenen ethischen Gesichtspunkte betrachtet. Zuletzt werden 
rechtliche Aspekte der Finanzierung der invasiven Heimbeatmung erörtert.
METHODIK: Auf Basis einer systematischen Literatursuche 2008 in insgesamt 31 
relevanten Datenbanken wird die derzeit aktuelle Literatur gesichtet und anhand 
festgelegter Kriterien ausgewählt. Randomisierte kontrollierte Studien, 
systematische Reviews und HTA-Berichte (HTA = Health Technology Assessment), 
klinische Studien mit Patientenzahlen über zehn, gesundheitsökonomische 
Evaluationen, Primärstudien ggf. mit eigenen Kostenberechnungen und 
Lebensqualitätsstudien mit Bezug zu den Forschungsfragen führen zum Einschluss 
in die Analyse.
ERGEBNISSE UND DISKUSSION: Invasive Beatmung kann die Symptome der 
Hypoventilation verbessern, wie sich aus der Analyse der Literatur ergibt. 
Darüber hinaus ist eine Lebensverlängerung wahrscheinlich, jedoch aus ethischen 
Gründen nicht durch qualitativ hochwertige Studien abgesichert. Komplikationen 
(z. B. Pneumonie) treten relativ selten auf. Für die Durchführung der Beatmung 
stehen mobile Heimbeatmungsgeräte zur Verfügung, deren technische Performance 
leider sehr unterschiedlich ist. Studien, die die ökonomischen Aspekte der 
Beatmung im Krankenhaus mit der außerklinischen Beatmung vergleichen, 
beschreiben Heimbeatmung als kostengünstigere Alternative zur stationären 
Versorgung auf einer Intensivstation, jedoch als teuerer im Vergleich zur 
nichtinvasiven (über Maske) Beatmung. Die höheren Aufwendungen entstehen 
aufgrund des notwendigen Equipments und des hohen Zeitaufwands für die teilweise 
24-stündige Pflege der betroffenen Patienten durch hochqualifiziertes Personal. 
Jedoch bezieht sich keine der Studien auf den deutschen Versorgungskontext. Die 
ermittelten Kosten sind stark von nationalen Honorarplänen und Arbeitslöhnen der 
Pflegedienste abhängig, was eine Übertragung kaum zulässt. Ergebnisse von 
Lebensqualitätsstudien sind meistens qualitativ. Die Lebensqualität der 
Patienten unter Beatmung wird von ihnen selbst überwiegend als gut bewertet. Bei 
den Pflegepersonen von beatmeten Patienten zeigen sich sowohl positive als auch 
negative Einschätzungen. Im Hinblick auf die ethischen Fragestellungen wurde 
untersucht, welche Aspekte bei der Beatmungseinleitung berücksichtigt werden 
müssen. Rechtlich gesehen ist die Finanzierung der häuslichen Beatmung, v. a. 
bei invasiver Beatmung mit der Notwendigkeit einer Behandlungspflege, durch das 
Sozialgesetzbuch (SGB) V geregelt. Die Übernahme der Kosten verteilt sich auf 
verschiedene Kostenträger, die häufig, u. a. aufgrund des allgemeinen 
Kostendrucks im Gesundheitswesen, nicht sich selbst, sondern andere in der 
Pflicht sehen. Deswegen ergibt sich in der Praxis häufig die Notwendigkeit, die 
Kostenübernahme vor Gericht einzuklagen, um das Grundrecht auf freie Wahl des 
Aufenthaltsorts wahrnehmen zu können.
SCHLUSSFOLGERUNG: Positive Effekte der invasiven Heimbeatmung (Gesamtüberleben 
und Symptomatik) sind aufgrund der analysierten Literatur hochwahrscheinlich, 
wenn auch nur mit geringer Evidenz belegt. Hier ist durch Aufbau eines 
Heimbeatmungs-Registers und der Versorgungsforschung die Erhebung valider Daten, 
zur Verbesserung ambulanter Strukturen, notwendig. Die Erhebung von deutschen 
Daten ist notwendig, um nationale Versorgungs- und Vergütungskonzepte adäquat 
darstellen zu können. Eine Differenzierung der Kostenstruktur nach Art der 
gewählten außerklinischen Versorgung ist aktuell nicht möglich. Literatur 
bezüglich Unterschiede in der Lebensqualität in Abhängigkeit von der gewählten 
außerklinischen Versorgungsform (Versorgung in der eigenen Wohnung, in einer 
betreuten Wohngruppe oder im auf invasive Beatmung spezialisierten Pflegeheim) 
existiert nicht. Auch hier herrscht weiterer Forschungsbedarf. Eine frühzeitige 
und ehrliche Patientenaufklärung ist für eine sogenannte partizipative 
Entscheidung – die eigenständig durch den Patienten nach eingehender Aufklärung 
und Beratung getroffen wird – pro bzw. kontra invasive Beatmung notwendig. Neben 
dem Langzeitüberleben müssen auch Lebensqualität und individuelle, soziale sowie 
religiöse Aspekte berücksichtigt werden.

DOI: 10.3205/hta000086
PMCID: PMC3010883
PMID: 21289881
