recent advances have found that there is an association between chronic stress, 
depression and sleeping troubles to both diabetes and obesity. This century is 
the unprecedented diabetogenic era in human history. It is thus urgent to take 
steps including screening, prevention and early management in an attempt to 
control this evolving epidemic of diabesity.

DOI: 10.1093/ndt/gfq576
PMID: 21045078 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


345. JAMA. 2010 Nov 3;304(17):1929-35. doi: 10.1001/jama.2010.1572.

Prediction of 6-month survival of nursing home residents with advanced dementia 
using ADEPT vs hospice eligibility guidelines.

Mitchell SL(1), Miller SC, Teno JM, Kiely DK, Davis RB, Shaffer ML.

Author information:
(1)The Hebrew Senior Life, Institute for Aging Research, Boston, Massachusetts, 
USA.

Comment in
    JAMA. 2010 Nov 3;304(17):1952-3.

CONTEXT: Estimating life expectancy is challenging in advanced dementia, 
potentially limiting the use of hospice care in these patients.
OBJECTIVE: To prospectively validate and compare the performance of the Advanced 
Dementia Prognostic Tool (ADEPT) and hospice eligibility guidelines to estimate 
6-month survival in nursing home residents with advanced dementia.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: A prospective cohort study conducted in 21 
nursing homes in Boston, Massachusetts, of 606 residents with advanced dementia 
who were recruited between November 1, 2007, and July 30, 2009. Data were 
ascertained at baseline to determine the residents' ADEPT score (range, 
1.0-32.5; higher scores indicate worse prognosis) and whether they met Medicare 
hospice eligibility guidelines. Survival was followed up to 6 months.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Assessment and comparison of the performance of the ADEPT 
score and hospice guidelines to predict 6-month survival using sensitivity, 
specificity, and the area under the receiver operating characteristic (AUROC) 
curve.
RESULTS: At baseline, the residents' mean (SD) ADEPT score was 10.1 (3.1) points 
and 65 residents (10.7%) met hospice eligibility guidelines. Over 6 months, 111 
residents (18.3%) died. The AUROC for the ADEPT score's prediction of 6-month 
mortality as a continuous variable was 0.67 (95% confidence interval [CI], 
0.62-0.72). The AUROC for Medicare hospice eligibility guidelines was 0.55 (95% 
CI, 0.51-0.59), the specificity was 0.89 (95% CI, 0.86-0.92), and the 
sensitivity was 0.20 (95% CI, 0.13-0.28). Using a cutoff of 13.5 on the ADEPT 
score, which also had specificity of 0.89, the AUROC was 0.58 (95% CI, 
0.54-0.63) and the sensitivity was 0.27 (95% CI, 0.19-0.36).
CONCLUSIONS: When prospectively validated at the bedside and used as a 
continuous measure, the ability of the ADEPT score to identify nursing home 
residents with advanced dementia at high risk of death within 6 months was 
modest, albeit better than hospice eligibility guidelines. Care provided to 
these residents should be guided by their goals of care rather than estimated 
life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2010.1572
PMCID: PMC3017367
PMID: 21045099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


346. Radiology. 2011 Jan;258(1):243-53. doi: 10.1148/radiol.10091808. Epub 2010
Nov  2.

The National Lung Screening Trial: overview and study design.

National Lung Screening Trial Research Team(1); Aberle DR, Berg CD, Black WC, 
Church TR, Fagerstrom RM, Galen B, Gareen IF, Gatsonis C, Goldin J, Gohagan JK, 
Hillman B, Jaffe C, Kramer BS, Lynch D, Marcus PM, Schnall M, Sullivan DC, 
Sullivan D, Zylak CJ.

Collaborators: Berg CD, Aberle DR, Fagerstrom RM, Gatsonis C, Gareen IF, Marcus 
PM, Cagnon C, Cody D, Fletcher G, Flynn MJ, Judy PF, Kruger R, Larke FJ, 
McNitt-Gray M, Payne T, Seibert JA, Wu X, Abbott G, Aberle DR, Amorosa JK, Barr 
RG, Black WC, Boiselle PM, Chiles C, Clark R, Coppage L, Falk R, Fishman EK, 
Gemmel D, Goldin JG, Goodman E, Hart EM, Hazelton T, Johnson E, Judy PF, 
Kazerooni E, McComb B, McLennan G, Munden RF, Ravenel J, Sullivan M, Swensen SJ, 
Torigia DA, Vydareny KH, Worrell JA, Balkin P, Church TR, Fouad M, Freedman MT, 
Garg K, Gelmann EP, Gierada DS, Hocking W, Inampudi S, Isaacs C, Kvale P, Lynch 
D, Mann H, Manor W, Nath H, Reding D, Spizarny DL, Strollo DC, Waltz J, Chen MH, 
Duan F, Izmirilian G, Pinsky P, Prorok PC, Miller AB, Edelman MJ, Evans WK, 
Fontana RS, Machtay M, Gierada DS, Clark KW, Clingan KL, Fagerstrom RM, Fletcher 
G, Flynn MJ, Ford MB, Garg K, Larke FJ, Márquez G, Moore SM, Nath H, Ohan P, 
Payne TJ, Peace S, Rosenbaum JL, Strollo DC, Wu X, Aberle D, Barr R, Black W, 
Goldin J, Torigian D, Vydareny K, Worrell J, Young RC, Alberts D, DeMets D, 
Greenwald P, Jacobs P, McLoud TC, Naidich DP, Tatum J, Sausville EA, Burke W, 
Colice G, Edwards B, Emerson S, Fletcher J, Green S, Harris R, Klein JS, Korn 
EL, Mayer R, Selby JV, Sturges DW, Turnbull BW, Watson TJ, Aberle D, Baylin S, 
Caporaso N, Dennis P, Dubinett S, Franklin W, Gatsonis C, Grizzle W, Hirsch F, 
Massion P, McKeeta-Probeck K, Minna J, Patz E, Spitz M, Berg CD, Prorok PC, 
Fagerstrom RM, Marcus PM, Corle D, Hu P, Izmirlian G, Pinsky P, Márquez G, 
Sullivan D, Gaegler J, Gohagan JK, Hoffman S, Jackson C, Lange E, Papadopoulos 
E, Galen B, Jaffe C, Kramer BS, Aberle D, Gatsonis C, Gareen I, Schnall M, Apgar 
C, Boyle A, Caldwell T, Fredericks N, Harbison D, Hartfeil D, Jones S, King S, 
Mahon I, Medina R, Masiejczyk C, Zamora P, Brastater H, Iyer V, George J, 
Gopalakrishnan D, Blair P, Bradley M, Crozier C, Oh M, Spiese N, Steward C, 
Kelly-Truran M, Thompson T, Cunningham E, Levering A, McMurtrie K, Nahill M, 
Snowden S, Smith K, Wilton F, Welsh T, Welsh R, Christie W, Clabo S, Clune R, 
Cunningham N, Downs J, Dymond L, Falcone J, Harris S, Harvey P, Hill J, Hill L, 
Letizia D, Looney K, McGinley H, Mean A, Moore M, Norton R, Ortico V, Sabina S, 
Sole R, Stetz J, Ssali A, Stubblefield J, Taylor T, White S, Gatsonis C, Chen 
MH, Duan F, Lu B, Gareen IF, Adams A, Baum S, Blevins M, Fox P, Girardi V, 
Gorelick J, Hunt E, McMullen Q, Meganathan K, Rendas-Baum R, Sicks JD, Snyder B, 
Yeh M, Duggan M, Souza C, Cahill J, Brewer BK, O'Brien B, Ford MB, Rosenbaum JL, 
Devereux G, Fritz MS, Galbraith M, Harkins J, Keating KJ, Midkiff K, Peace S, 
Singh U, Zimmerman T, Clingan KL, Payte N, Price H, Caughman C, Chanapatna R, 
Florzyk M, Lee A, Morgan A, Ohan P, Yang J, Martinusen LE, McSwain J, Rosario R, 
Singh J, DeBaugh RA, Campleman S, Mesnard M, Ragard L, Lewis T, Roberts LM, 
Narayanaswami V, Ralda V, Lake W Jr, Riley T, Clapp JD, Austin J, Irons B, Xu F, 
Jones GC, Young M, Goodman A, Kibic C, Sheridan P, Kadish N, Moline D, Phillips 
R, Adkinson M, Creed D, DeCoste T, Gembala D, Hurst S, King E, Knowles J, 
McBride P, Pangburn P, Preston J, Stokes K, Tesch P, Wenmoth S, Galocy L, 
Mandley D, McBride P, Orvis G, Isaacs C, Gelmann EP, Freedman MT, Dial A, Clark 
L, Cohen L, Gerber J, Jamis-Dow C, Makariou E, Smith E, Garrett A, McGuire C, 
Neff S, Riley T, Cantrell S, Marsh G, Wray C, Yondonsambuu B, Giles U, Ford M, 
Brown V, Evangelista AL, Hammond T, Nickel J, Brangan M, Lee M, Lin C, Adkins 
EC, Armah G, Blue C, Cooke V, Gray N, Gustitis M, Hawkins L, Isaacs G, Kim M, 
King M, Kumbalasiri K, Laura R, McDaniel K, Mulugeta A, Riley L, Sorrell S, 
Thomas W, Woodard L, Kvale P, Johnson CC, Tammemagi M, Spizarny D, Zylak C, 
Flynn M, Jacobsen G, Sankey S, Schultz L, Albertsen K, Broski K, Kucera G, Poler 
K, Spoutz-Ryan C, Thomas D, Griesemer E, Kwit B, Fantuz P, McLellan B, Simmons 
D, Hafeez Y, Maddy N, Davis L, Estell R, Kozakowski S, Rowe J, Stanley M, Zhang 
X, Frebes ME, Paquette M, Tecmire M, Young L, Greene D, Hill C, Young K, 
Bellware K, Bohn K, Caird N, Fink H, Fiarman S, Houston M, Jolly A, Krzeczkowski 
C, Mack C, Murray L, Nanovski A, Rempinski D, Tumberlinson H, William D, 
Eldridge-Smith E, Graves V, Szabo N, Reding D, Hocking W, Manor W, Crump J, 
Kruger R, Greenlee R, Lappe K, Multerer D, Kriescher D, Vieth A, Wein S, Fuehrer 
D, Gjertson C, Krebsbach J, Kuhlka C, Luttrop K, Netzer J, Wegner J, Fischer V, 
Mathiesen-Viergutz K, Kofka K, Jablonsky N, Johnson B, Kitchner T, Mueller L, 
Rueth A, Wachholz S, Bohman K, Bruger M, Kramer KR, Kuenhold K, Mueller C, 
Mueller C, Multerer L, Zahradka S, Alkilidar J, Bhattacharjee N, Cangelosi C, 
Carlson R, Coppens A, Cousins M, Edelstein B, Gerndt K, Heffernon J, Hinke T, 
Hinson M, Hutchins L, Lieberman K, Manor W, Mulligan G, Omoba E, Risa T, Sheflin 
J, Swan T, Warner J, Williams A, Yokochi L, Balkin P, Adaniya R, Glanz K, Navin 
J, Shambaugh V, Tabrah F, Willcox B, Williams P, He Q, Jenkins V, Bow K, 
Tsukamoto J, Hyun S, Brown E, Morrow H, Stryker K, Shiratori H, Lau P, Au D, 
Francis W, Dolan L, Brooke J, Calulot M, Chun V, Rabanal K, Tani J, Lewis C, 
Morfit J, Brunst A, Turner L, Hino G, Chung A, Elbon-Copp C, Huynh W, Johnson M, 
Nakano E, Villaruz L, Fouad MN, Nath H, Bailey WC, Garver R, Wu X, Brawner D, 
Malcomb I, Morgan D, Sanders PC, Sandy A, Schwartz M, Singh S, Dransfield M, 
Higgins D, Moore A, Acemgil A, Blake T, Lee J, Quattlebaum S, Schach J, Martin 
T, Khatri R, Gendi W, Powell B, Johnson C, Sears J, Jordan S, Prayer V, Walker 
C, Johnson M, Thompson J, Crawford ED, Garg K, Bunn P Jr, Gamito E, Lynch D, 
Ogden S, Larke FJ, Pretzel S, Ramsay L, Vaughn C, Whiton C, Sammons D, 
Springhetti L, Tenorio S, Cadez N, Laster S, O'Donnell C, Hughes J, Livingston 
JG, Morrison G, Moss W, Mullennix M, Peters M, Sahin H, Slear M, Burck M, Hill 
C, Jewitt E, Pena R, Ordonez E, Sammons G, Hernandez J, Reyes A, Somoza A, 
Church TR, Oken M, Inampudi S, Day D, Edelman K, Fox T, Gaerte S, Myra-Bloom K, 
Plunkett M, Olson F, Rust P, Schneider L, Trombley B, Vahey T, Payne TJ, 
Bangerter A, David-Schlegel T, DesMarais D, Frederickson S, Geisser M, Portnov 
N, Silverman G, Stahan F, Vuong S, Watt G, Woodside J, Zirbes A, Breer S, 
Haselhuhn C, Longden C, Mueller C, Rice M, Warren D, Collins S, Levi S, Manual 
J, Matous L, Olsson P, Peterson S, Rogers C, Steele ML, Beckmann P, Jurjans L, 
Terrian S, Fraki S, Fronheiser M, Heinrichs L, Kirby D, Seivert J, Steinberg C, 
Watry M, Boyle K, Burnside A, Kiffmeyer R, Mosiman W, Bailey A, Byrnes P, Stark 
L, Weston M, Whistler D, Cordes J, Engelhard D, Becker J, Bradley P, Fisher J, 
McLaughlin H, Mendez AM, Miller D, Ronan R, Siga B, Weissfeld JL, Salerno MD, 
Schragin J, Strollo D, Warfel TE, Wolfe PW, Antico DA, Bee MT, Bittner DF, Corey 
WT, Hawkins RA, Herbick WT, Karwat MP, Leonard KJ, Petrochko CN, Pickerin SF, 
Smart PE, Walters PJ, Zehner JA, Schragin J, Augustine K, Misko S, Richel M, 
Riley MA, Warren L, McDonough K, Rozanok B, Schragin J, Helms J, Olson P, 
Uttecht S, Wirth M, Atkins R, Clement L, Gurtner D, Jones L, Buys SS, Mann H, 
Drosten R, Murray K, Nowers K, Jenkins P, Tripp D, Herron G, Van Stam E, Varner 
J, O'Toole K, Olson C, Omori D, Andersen A, Argyle N, Avrin J, Bacon J, 
Broschinsky M, Montalbo C, Nolan K, Randall A, Schleip K, Sheltra SJ, Tischner 
R, Toyn C, Turner K, Whittaker B, Wicklander E, Wolf J, Dalton C, Doi B, Childs 
J, Gren L, Randall A, Watson D, Varner J, Jones T, Neilson B, Ahumada H, Bourija 
H, Brown C, Ferris B, Hadfield L, Hansen K, Koford J, Kopesec S, Lloyd A, 
Lofthouse M, Matinkhah S, May V, Nichols S, Nieves A, Oviatt M, Richardson N, 
Rowley AL, Sandberg E, Scholl D, Seguin SL, Shea D, Smith S, Street PA, Walters 
M, Weiben R, Wilcox L, Zisumbo R, Beck TM, Waltz JS, Ball S, Burt TB, Daniel EN, 
DeMordaunt QA, Fisher MT, Fuchs MA, Hubler BE, Jennings CJ, Lane RH, Leymaster 
CE, Macey LC, Marx SV, Maxwell JR, Nelson BD, Fairbanks J, Wohlers B, Heinz J, 
Berreth K, Marshall R, Brekke J, Jones K, Barrow A, Bashford D, Clot B, Cook T, 
Dobson L, Hamilton-Foss A, Hanson W, Hyder JE, Lewis-Burke C, Mitchell S, 
Osterhout M, Patella K, Peterson P, Schornak-Curtis S, Sirianni L, Stoller L, 
Vigeant K, Whistle C, Yates J, Andriole G, Gierada DS, Anderson DC, Bhalla S, 
Bierhals AJ, Bronfman J, Glazer HS, Gutierrez FR, Geisse G, Kotner LM, 
Javidan-Nejad C, Rezai K, Sagel SS, Semenkovich JW, Siegel MJ, Sorrel D, Woodard 
PK, Engelhart D, Fletcher G, Haverman R, Campbell A, Gardner V, Gherardini D, 
Hoese L, Holdener R, Ledbetter L, Nieters P, Reiners C, Wade J, Wiseman M, 
Rueweler P, Williams R, Chi D, Budd T, Laster S, Webb J, Stolin C, Garrett K, 
Fleming E, Freesmeier E, Frye J, Graham D, Kaemmerer H, Nevilles J, Taylor K, 
Blaine J, Clark K, Gierada D, Koppel P, Maffitt D, Moore S, Molton J, Phillips 
S, Prior F, Wolfsberger M, Cosas A, Kim S, Kim M, Liang Y, Rueweler P, Williams 
R, Pilgram T, Haas A, Hartwell D, Roeshe D, Lowery A, Meese S, Naughton K, 
Yoffie R, Blaine J, Clark K, Koppel P, Maffit D, Moore S, Prior F, Phillips S, 
Smith K, Boiselle PM, Schwartzstein R, Lin PJ, Parritt TA, Grady EA, Damon L, 
Gard S, Griggs R, Potemkin A, Pollock MM, Mc Clellan S, Laron M, Owens T, 
Costello P, Jacobson FL, Judy PF, Hunsaker AR, Spirn PW, Trotman-Dickenson B, 
Christopoulos VE, Kazda IK, MacDougall RC, Walsh A, Nawfel RD, Berger R, Chan P, 
Delano M, Geiger J, Krinopol C, McGinnis AD, McLaughlin AM, Weatherby R, Abbott 
G, Tung G, Maineiro M, Camara L, Cobb C, Foley S, Morrell E, Romano D, Guillette 
D, Smith W, Amorosa JK, Aisner J, Backer M, Bramwitt M, de Caravalho V, Epstein 
R, Joyce P, Langenfeld JE, Reinert A, DeMarco K, Lutzker S, Musanti R, Shiff S, 
Wolfsohn T, Hudak C, Hugill A, Furlong M, Weslowsky E, Carmen S, Foster DL, 
Hansen K, Pennetta B, White LV, Tokarz R, Trotta M, Birofka A, Black WC, Kasales 
CJ, Lewis PJ, Weaver JB, Lenz SB, Barrett AC, Dauphinais R, Heinz JR, Siemionko 
MK, Taplin A, Wasson LS, DeAlmeida L, Longacre S, Meagher K, Moser CM, Lawlor JK 
3rd, O'Quinn C, Black NE, Bradley HL, Bronson JK, Cosgrove T, Haron MK, King D, 
Mazuerk PM, O'Donnell NF, Pluta DJ, Sackett TJ, Turgeon GD, Albano H, Bell C, 
Bergen J, Bizer G, Carmichael NM, Cimis C, Davis S, DeAngelis T, Fellows G, 
Fenton C, Ferola J, Gankiewicz N, Hastings D, Howell C, Johnson ME, Krisk M, 
Lancor H, Leary C, LeBlanc M, Leming A, Leming M, Mead D, Milacek M, Mood J, 
Nordstrom H, Palazzolo C, Pierce J, Remitz RP, Rider J, Robbins KA, Sleasman B, 
Spaulding J, Vashel C, Welch A, White L, Whitty M, Vydareny KH, Williams AM, 
Karellas A, Grayson L, McCalister-Cross C, Mesquita S, Nguyen A, Myers LN, 
Deaton E, Falk R, Maxfield S, Thomas K, Brenzel L, Allen P, Brooks D, Chadwell 
C, Couch E, Devore A, Flores R, Francis M, Landes S, Mattingly J, Oechsli M, 
Pitino B, Sams S, Soukhanova O, Bland P, Bube S, Hoffa T, McElsain B, Johnson D, 
Francow C, Johnson S, Senn P, Fishman EK, Horton KM, Lawler LP, Bradford L, 
Christensen G, Bishop J, Motley L, Robertson D, Stewart R, Guzman C, Blake HB, 
Bradford H, Bradford J, Burner J, Kasecamp J, Kaufmann JB, Kimball D, Lewis Z, 
Moesinger S, Walsh S, Taylor K, Yung R, Zeng M, Gambill G, Merrill S, Mahesh M, 
McComb B, Johnson EA, Jolles HI, Kuzo RS, Morin RL, Abaya R, Chewar D, Shwarts 
P, Allen S, Manning S, Adams M, Awan Z, Beagle L, Cape D, Zeiger T, Amendolare 
L, Bahr N, Belyea M, Berg T, Burkhard M, Cottrell L, DeAngelis K, Dvorak M, Gay 
LH, Hatton K, Jacoby S, Kennedy V, Krach K, Laughren M, Lavergne C, Lawrence M, 
Lynch J, McDonald A, Mestas F, Moody J, O'Brien C, Pitts J, Polding B, 
Richardson L, Robinson K, Warren A, Washburn H, Wilson E, Zagarra L, Batton KM, 
Chellini D, DeWitt K, Fleming DR, Newton-Foster C, Krach K, MacDonald R, O'Brien 
C, Ott J, Peterson J, Sallas M, Teepe M, Thomas R, Torrence K, Zagarra L, 
Hildestad J, Swensen SJ, Hartman TE, Jett JR, McCollough CH, Midthun DE, Andrist 
BR, Hanson NE, Sathre CL, Schroeder LD, Sheeran JR, Walters LC, Andrist CL, 
Bungum AO, Bornhorst CL, Deno DM, Krpata TS, Lambrecht AM, McKey CM, Prudoehl 
DK, Richter HR, Ravenel J, Costello P, Brisendine A, Adrales-Bentz T, Arnold K, 
Benjamin B, Dodd A, Keller J, Saunders T, Spicker P, Shannon S, Bailey L, Comer 
H, Espiritu J, Helwi S, Mack-Pipkin B, Clark R, Coppage L, Hazelton T, Tockman 
M, Evans B, Wadhwa N, Baptiste N, Eysmans C, Vera-Gonzalez N, Hamm L, Harjani V, 
Sear A, Blackwell S, Fernandez A, Williams E, Coleman KA, Afiat J, Kirchoff L, 
Bowman R, Brothers C, Cohen B, Fields N, Guzman R, Monje C, Sterling W, Thorpe 
L, White K, Williams B, Hart EM, Nekervis E, Franco A, Glick I, Grigolo M, Harts 
Y, Migo A, Rockwell KP, Stein A, Weyls R, Berns E, Biringer MT, Del Pino A, 
Dubbs P, Fehrmann GM, Goodwin AL, Granger L, Haglage J, Hirschy J, King M, 
Kristopher JW, Mac NM, Mahoney G, Markarian A, Ramirez M, Taylor M, West KM, 
Sullivan MA, Matthews CC, Jones J, Cole A, Dow P, Fearon J, Fodera B, Ginther B, 
McCall RL, Williams S, Young S, Juul C, LaFleur A, Lohmann K, Pineda L, Schmidt 
A, Wright S, Greenup S, McNulty K, Pawlak S, Porter H, Lanning T, Loria D, Barr 
RG, Gemmel D, Cook A 2nd, Hallsky JA, Boulos A, Dalal P, Dickstein B, DuChateau 
A, Engartner C, Evans DM, Evans J, Evans K, Gemmel M, Hallsky S, Hoffman P, 
Hritz C, Kerchum L, Kolich M, Kolich M, Kolich M, Kumar N, Lobaugh J, Love C, 
Love D, Love M, Marchese M, Nelson D, Petkus C, Petruzzi M, Raver C, Schuler E, 
Schuler P, Schultz D, Kobistek R, Jackson J, Ziegler J, Fleischer J, Welch LL, 
Acerra M, Brittain B, Conklin L, Cyphert C, Delfosse B, Franceshelli L, Fuller 
J, Garland D, Gocala PJ, Grunenwald M, Kowalik D, Kurjan SL, Lavernick P, 
Maderitz J, Metz R, Quinn R, Semansky M, Smith S, St Claire A, Taybus P, Wisler 
D, Zubena K, Goldin JG, Aberle DR, Duda C, Kay P, Trapnell P, Vlachou M, Cagnon 
C, McNitt-Gray M, Bigby BB, Gallego A, Hamm G, Spivak J, Pollard M, Brown E, 
Campa O, Carter B, Clark S, Flores M, Ho J, Lee T, Lewis B, McMahon J, Momongan 
L, Ngo J, Perryman A, Rivas N, Romo C, Sookpisal K, Stone L, Voight B, Williams 
C, Adams K, Do P, Engber K, Henry L, Khalili M, Morales S, O'Carroll C, Quijano 
J, Borgheian S, Inatomi R, Lorenzo A, Lorenzo D, Nyborg G, Salazar V, Woo M, 
Goodman E, Beck P, Beerman P, Jacobsen J, Voight K, Allman E, Chen S, Farkas C, 
Forter I, Marcus P, Matthews L, Phillips R, Silva-Gietzen J, Sturgeon E, Varner 
G, McLennan G, Mullen B, Stanford W, Hoffman E, Sprenger K, Chapman A, Crawford 
K, Marietta J, Kmetty L, Meier J, Pirotte P, Rathmell L, Hudson M, Sieren J, 
Kazerooni E, Cronin P, Gross B, Kelly A, Patel S, Pernicano P, Holloway L, 
Chalom G, Henricks E, Pool J, Shepherd D, Zapolski D, Goodsitt M, Hooks H, 
Torigian DA, Gefter W, Werner DL, Smith CE, Choi BK, Lee JK, Holland C, Matuza 
J, Nosker HC, Russell W, Cupp S, O'Shea M, Munden R, Cates M, Sanchez E, 
Aganon-Acheta M, Black M, Blalock D, Brown C, Cromwell H, Dunnington J, Erasmus 
J, Gladish G, Gupta S, Haynes MW, Hensley T, Iyer RB, Madewell J, Malbari T, 
Marom EM, Morice R, Rao S, Sabloff B, Scully NF, Tekchandani S, Truong M, Wicks 
D, Cody D, Geiser WR, Montague JL, Patel M, Robinson T, Worrell JA, Donnelly EF, 
Massion P, Thielke E, Bell AM, Pickens DR, Bowman WA, Herron T, Shone D, Chin B, 
Chiles C, Chen M, Harmon L, Hinshaw L, Nelson C, Biracree D, Boyles D, Burrough 
A, Davis A, Drake E, Frost E, Long A, Bowman E, Dyer S.

Author information:
(1)Center for Statistical Sciences, Brown University, Box G-S121, 121 S Main St, 
7th Floor, Providence, RI 02912, USA.

The National Lung Screening Trial (NLST) is a randomized multicenter study 
comparing low-dose helical computed tomography (CT) with chest radiography in 
the screening of older current and former heavy smokers for early detection of 
lung cancer, which is the leading cause of cancer-related death in the United 
States. Five-year survival rates approach 70% with surgical resection of stage 
IA disease; however, more than 75% of individuals have incurable locally 
advanced or metastatic disease, the latter having a 5-year survival of less than 
5%. It is plausible that treatment should be more effective and the likelihood 
of death decreased if asymptomatic lung cancer is detected through screening 
early enough in its preclinical phase. For these reasons, there is intense 
interest and intuitive appeal in lung cancer screening with low-dose CT. The use 
of survival as the determinant of screening effectiveness is, however, 
confounded by the well-described biases of lead time, length, and overdiagnosis. 
Despite previous attempts, no test has been shown to reduce lung cancer 
mortality, an endpoint that circumvents screening biases and provides a 
definitive measure of benefit when assessed in a randomized controlled trial 
that enables comparison of mortality rates between screened individuals and a 
control group that does not undergo the screening intervention of interest. The 
NLST is such a trial. The rationale for and design of the NLST are presented.

© RSNA, 2010

DOI: 10.1148/radiol.10091808
PMCID: PMC3009383
PMID: 21045183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Authors stated no financial relationship to 
disclose.


347. J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr. 2010 Dec;55 Suppl 1(Suppl 1):S43-8. doi: 
10.1097/QAI.0b013e3181f9c09e.

Antiretroviral treatment 2010: progress and controversies.

Gulick RM(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Infectious Diseases, Weill Medical College of Cornell University, 
New York, NY 10065, USA. rgulick@med.cornell.edu

Effective antiretroviral therapy (ART) changes the clinical course of HIV 
infection. There are 25 antiretroviral drugs approved for the treatment of HIV 
infection, and current antiretroviral drug regimens are highly effective, 
convenient, and relatively nontoxic. ART regimens should be chosen in 
consideration of a patient's particular clinical situation. Successful treatment 
is associated with durable suppression of HIV viremia over years, and 
consequently, ART reduces the risk of clinical progression. In fact, current 
models estimate that an HIV-infected individual appropriately treated with 
antiretroviral drugs has a life expectancy that approaches that of the general 
HIV-uninfected population, although some patient groups such as injection drug 
users do less well. Despite these advances, continued questions about ART 
persist: What is the optimal time to start ART? What is the best regimen to 
start? When is the optimal time to change ART? What is the best regimen to 
change to? In addition, newer antiretroviral agents are in development, both in 
existing classes and in new classes such as the CD4 receptor attachment 
inhibitors and the maturation inhibitors. Further research will help optimize 
current antiretroviral treatments and strategies.

DOI: 10.1097/QAI.0b013e3181f9c09e
PMCID: PMC3061404
PMID: 21045599 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


348. Panminerva Med. 2010 Sep;52(3):195-207.

External beam radiotherapy for prostate cancer.

Pinkawa M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, RWTH Aachen University, Aachen, Germany. 
mpinkawa@ukaachen.de

External beam radiotherapy (EBRT) is a well established curative treatment for 
prostate cancer. Retrospective studies demonstrate similar biochemical 
recurrence free survival rates of radical prostatectomy and EBRT for patients in 
comparable prognostic subgroups, so that patient information should particularly 
include the respective toxicity spectrum. In principle, EBRT can be offered to 
every patient without distant metastases and a life expectancy of at least 5-10 
years. The decision involves the selection of a suitable technique, dose, target 
volume and the option of a combination with antiandrogen therapy. Prospective 
randomized studies showed the advantage of a dose escalation up to total doses 
of 76-78Gy concerning biochemical tumor control; additionally concerning 
disease-specific survival for high risk patients. Other randomized trials 
demonstrated a survival benefit for patients with locally advanced or high risk 
cancers who received an additional adjuvant antiandrogen therapy to EBRT. Based 
on the results of randomized studies, an adjuvant post-prostatectomy EBRT of the 
prostatic fossa with doses in the range of 60-66 Gy can be recommended in case 
of positive surgical margins or pT3 tumors - reducing the risk of metastases and 
increasing survival. In case of a biochemical (or macroscopic) recurrence after 
radical prostatectomy, EBRT is the only curative treatment option for the 
patient - favorable prognostic factors are low pre-EBRT PSA (prostate-specific 
antigen) levels, long PSA doubling doubling time, long interval between 
prostatectomy and recurrence, low Gleason score, positive margins and an absent 
seminal vesicle involvement. Total doses of at least 70 Gy should be 
administered in case of macroscopic recurrences, but the curative chances are 
considerably lower in comparison to a biochemical recurrence alone.

PMID: 21045776 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


349. Panminerva Med. 2010 Sep;52(3):223-30.

Nerve-sparing radical prostatectomy: current concepts in a robotic era.

Srivastava A(1), Tan G, Grover S, Tewari AK.

Author information:
(1)Lefrak Institute of Robotic Surgery, James Buchanan Brady Foundation, 
Department of Urology, Weill Medical College of Cornell University, New York 
Presbyterian Hospital, NY 10065, USA.

Recovery of potency sufficient for penetrative intercourse at a year after 
surgery varies widely. Much of the progress achieved in the past two decades in 
improving potency outcomes after radical prostatectomy has resulted from an 
improved appreciation of the anatomic basis of the nerves responsible for 
erection. Recent studies suggest alternative and more complex course of nerves 
than previously described. Better appreciation of the variable and often 
invisible anatomical course of the cavernosal nerves continues to engender 
innovations in surgical technique to optimize their preservation. Exciting 
frontiers of research that include efforts in stem cell neural regeneration, 
development of specific fluorophores and biomarkers, and performing radical 
prostatectomy under hypothermic conditions may provide much-needed breakthroughs 
to improving potency outcomes following radical prostatectomy in this current 
age of improved life expectancy and heightened patient expectations.

PMID: 21045779 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


350. Planta. 2011 Feb;233(2):309-23. doi: 10.1007/s00425-010-1301-z. Epub 2010
Nov 3.

A rice β-1,3-glucanase gene Osg1 is required for callose degradation in pollen 
development.

Wan L(1), Zha W, Cheng X, Liu C, Lv L, Liu C, Wang Z, Du B, Chen R, Zhu L, He G.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Ministry of Education for Plant Development Biology, 
College of Life Sciences, Wuhan University, Wuhan 430072, People's Republic of 
China.

Plant β-1,3-glucanases are involved in plant defense and development. In rice 
(Oryza sativa), 14 genes encoding putative β-1,3-glucanases have been isolated 
and sequenced. However, only limited information is available on the function of 
these β-1,3-glucanase genes. In this study, we report a detailed functional 
characterization of one of these genes, Osg1. Osg1 encodes a glucanase carrying 
no C-terminal extension. Osg1 was found to be expressed throughout the plant and 
highly expressed in florets, leaf sheaths, and leaf blades. Investigations using 
real-time PCR, immunocytochemical analysis, and a GUS-reporter gene driven by 
the Osg1 promoter indicated that Osg1 was mainly expressed at the late meiosis, 
early microspore, and middle microspore stages in the florets. To elucidate the 
role of Osg1, we suppressed expression of the Osg1 gene by RNA interference in 
transgenic rice. The silencing of Osg1 resulted in male sterility. The pollen 
mother cells appeared to be normal in Osg1-RI plants, but callose degradation 
was disrupted around the microspores in the anther locules of the Osg1-RI plants 
at the early microspore stage. Consequently, the release of the young 
microspores into the anther locules was delayed, and the microspores began to 
degenerate later. These results provide evidence that Osg1 is essential for 
timely callose degradation in the process of tetrad dissolution.

DOI: 10.1007/s00425-010-1301-z
PMID: 21046148 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


351. J Vis. 2010 Oct 1;10(12):9. doi: 10.1167/10.12.9.

Orientation masking and cross-orientation suppression (XOS): implications for 
estimates of filter bandwidth.

Meese TS(1), Holmes DJ.

Author information:
(1)School of Life and Health Sciences, Aston University, Birmingham, UK. 
t.s.meese@aston.ac.uk

Most contemporary models of spatial vision include a cross-oriented route to 
suppression (masking from a broadly tuned inhibitory pool), which is most potent 
at low spatial and high temporal frequencies (T. S. Meese & D. J. Holmes, 2007). 
The influence of this pathway can elevate orientation-masking functions without 
exciting the target mechanism, and because early psychophysical estimates of 
filter bandwidth did not accommodate this, it is likely that they have been 
overestimated for this corner of stimulus space. Here we show that a transient 
40% contrast mask causes substantial binocular threshold elevation for a 
transient vertical target, and this declines from a mask orientation of 0° to 
about 40° (indicating tuning), and then more gently to 90°, where it remains at 
a factor of ∼4. We also confirm that cross-orientation masking is diminished or 
abolished at high spatial frequencies and for sustained temporal modulation. We 
fitted a simple model of pedestal masking and cross-orientation suppression 
(XOS) to our data and those of G. C. Phillips and H. R. Wilson (1984) and found 
the dependency of orientation bandwidth on spatial frequency to be much less 
than previously supposed. An extension of our linear spatial pooling model of 
contrast gain control and dilution masking (T. S. Meese & R. J. Summers, 2007) 
is also shown to be consistent with our results using filter bandwidths of ±20°. 
Both models include tightly and broadly tuned components of divisive 
suppression. More generally, because XOS and/or dilution masking can affect the 
shape of orientation-masking curves, we caution that variations in bandwidth 
estimates might reflect variations in processes that have nothing to do with 
filter bandwidth.

DOI: 10.1167/10.12.9
PMID: 21047741 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


352. Indian Pediatr. 2010 Sep;47(9):743-8. doi: 10.1007/s13312-010-0112-4.

The methods of survival analysis for clinicians.

Indrayan A(1), Bansal AK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics and Medical Informatics, University College of 
Medical Sciences, Dilshad Garden, Delhi 110 095, India. aindrayan@gmail.com

The methods of survival analysis are required to analyze duration data but their 
use is restricted possibly due to lack of awareness and the intricacies 
involved. We explain common methods of survival analysis, namely, life table, 
Kaplan Meier, log rank and Cox model, in a simple and friendly language so that 
the medical fraternity can use them with confidence where applicable.

DOI: 10.1007/s13312-010-0112-4
PMID: 21048254 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


353. MEDICC Rev. 2010 Oct;12(4):27-9. doi: 10.37757/MR2010.V12.N4.6.

Havana: aging in an aging city.

Coyula M(1).

Author information:
(1)Group for the Comprehensive Development of Havana (GDIC), Havana, Cuba. 
mcoyula@gdic.cu

Comment in
    MEDICC Rev. 2011 Jan;13(1):5; author reply 5.

In Cuba, various factors have led to nearly zero population growth and a rapidly 
aging society. In a few years, the rush of baby-boomers reaching retirement will 
stand the population pyramid on its head, as the country's life expectancy 
already nears 80 years. Almost 20% of all Cubans live in Havana, demographically 
and structurally an aging city. Yet, the city is not prepared to offer its older 
inhabitants the spaces, services and housing options they require for a healthy 
quality of life. Studies must be undertaken to address this issue 
comprehensively, generating creative alternatives for wise use of limited 
resources to fulfill the material, social and spiritual needs of this growing 
population sector. KEYWORDS Aging, quality of life, social environment, urban 
health, housing for the elderly, Cuba.

Publisher: En Cuba, varios factores han llevado a un crecimiento casi nulo de la 
población y una sociedad en rápido envejecimiento. En pocos años, la oleada de 
nacidos en la explosión demográfi ca que comienzan a jubilarse pondrá de cabeza 
la pirámide de población, puesto que la esperanza de vida del país ya se 
aproxima a los 80 años. Casi el 20% de todos los cubanos viven en La Habana, una 
ciudad que envejece demográfi ca y estructuralmente. Sin embargo, la ciudad no 
está preparada para ofrecer a sus habitantes más viejos las opciones de 
espacios, servicios y vivienda que ellos necesitan para tener una calidad de 
vida saludable. Deberán llevarse a cabo estudios que aborden este asunto de 
forma integral, generando alternativas creativas para el uso inteligente de los 
recursos limitados a fi n de satisfacer las necesidades materiales, sociales y 
espirituales de este sector creciente de la población. PALABRAS CLAVE 
Envejecimiento, calidad de vida, entorno social, salud urbana, vivienda para 
ancianos, Cuba

DOI: 10.37757/MR2010.V12.N4.6
PMID: 21048541 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


354. Breast Care (Basel). 2009;4(4):263-267. doi: 10.1159/000232792. Epub 2009
Aug  20.

Breast Cancer and Socioeconomic Status in Austria.

Kunze U(1), Böhm G.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Social Medicine, Center for Public Health, Medical University 
Vienna, Austria.

With 28% of all cancers, breast cancer is the most common cancer in the Austrian 
female population (also worldwide), and incidence has shown a development 
similar to that in most of the Western European countries. Several studies 
reveal a higher incidence of breast cancer in women of higher socioeconomic 
status (SES) compared to women of lower SES. Later age of first childbearing, 
low total parity, significantly greater use of hormone replacement therapy, and 
a greater use of mammography screening by women of higher SES are possible 
explanations for these trends. Socioeconomic inequalities have a strong 
influence on the subjective perception of health, but also on objective 
indicators of the health situation. The health behavior of the Austrian 
population is, of course, determined by social factors. People with a higher 
socioeconomic status not only live longer than people with a lower SES, they 
also have a healthier lifestyle and they better assess their own health status. 
These inequalities can also be observed in significant differences in life 
expectancy between university graduates and low-educated people (6.2 years for 
men and 2.6 years for women).

Mit 28% Anteil an allen Malignomen ist das Mammakarzinom das häufigste Karzinom 
der Frau in Österreich (ebenso weltweit). Die Inzidenzentwicklung war ähnlich 
der in den meisten europäischen Ländern. Zahlreiche Studien zeigen eine höhere 
Inzidenz bei Frauen mit einem höheren sozioökonomischen Status im Vergleich zu 
Frauen mit einem niedrigen sozioökonomischen Status. Das höhere Alter bei der 
ersten Geburt, die insgesamt niedrigere Fertilität, ein signifikant höherer 
Gebrauch von Hormonersatztherapie und eine größere Inanspruchnahme der 
Mammographie bei Frauen mit einem hohen sozialen Status sind mögliche 
Erklärungen für diese Trends. Sozioökonomische Unterschiede haben einen starken 
Einfluss auf die subjektive Wahrnehmung von Gesundheit, stellen aber auch 
objektive Indikatoren der individuellen gesundheitlichen Situation dar. Das 
Gesundheitsverhalten der Österreicher ist selbstverständlich von sozialen 
Faktoren determiniert. Menschen mit einem höheren sozialen Status leben nicht 
nur länger als Menschen mit niedrigem sozialen Status, sie leben auch gesünder 
und schätzen ihre eigene Gesundheit besser ein. Diese Ungleichheiten schlagen 
sich auch in der Lebenserwartung mit signifikanten Unterschieden zwischen 
Akademikern und Menschen mit geringer Schulbildung nieder (6,2 Jahre bei den 
Männern und 2,6 Jahre bei den Frauen).

DOI: 10.1159/000232792
PMCID: PMC2941657
PMID: 21049072


355. Tunis Med. 2010 Nov;88(11):804-8.

[Survival in cirrhosis].

[Article in French]

Ouakaa-Kchaou A(1), Belhadj N, Abdelli N, Azzouz M, Ben Mami N, Dougui MH, 
Najjar T, Kharrat J, Ghorbel A.

Author information:
(1)Service de Gastro-entérologie Hôpital Habib Thameur, Tunis.

BACKGROUND: Assessment of prognosis in patients with cirrhosis is important so 
as to plan their management.
AIM: To determine the survival rates and to identify indicators associated with 
shorter life expectancy in Tunisians patients with cirrhosis.
METHODS: This is a retrospective study of in-patients with cirrhosis during a 
5-years period. We studied clinical and biochemical characteristics of all 
patients and the occurrence of decompensation or complication. The overall 
survival, mortality rate and causes of death were reviewed. Univariate and 
multivariate analysis was performed on all variables to identify parameters 
associated with a lower life expectancy.
RESULTS: We studied 222 patients (60% females) with a mean age of 60 years. Mean 
follow up was 22 months. The overall survival was 52.5% at 5 years. With 
univariate analysis, 10 variables were associated with a poor prognosis: male 
gender, decompensation at admission, Child-Pugh C, esophageal varices, 
hypertensive gastropathy, occurrence of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis, 
hepatic encephalopathy, hepato-renal syndrome, hepatocellular carcinoma and 
portal thrombosis. With multivariate analysis, only male gender was 
independently correlated with survival.
CONCLUSION: In our study, male gender was an uncommon parameter that predicts 
survival in cirrhotic patient. The Child-Pugh score was a good index for 
assessing the prognosis.

PMID: 21049409 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


356. Endokrynol Pol. 2010 Sep-Oct;61(5):462-6.

Occurrence of BRAF mutations in a Polish cohort of PTC patients - preliminary 
results.

Czarniecka A(1), Rusinek D, Stobiecka E, Krajewska J, Kowal M, Kropińska A, 
Zebracka J, Kowalska M, Włoch J, Maciejewski A, Handkiewicz-Junak D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncological and Reconstructive Surgery, MSC Memorial Cancer 
Centre and Institute of Oncology, Gliwice Branch, Poland. 
aczarniecka@io.gliwice.pl

INTRODUCTION: Genetic alterations involving the mitogen-activated protein kinase 
(MAPK) pathway are frequently demonstrated in papillary thyroid cancer (PTC). 
BRAF(V600E), the most frequent mutation in adult patients, is present in 
approximately 50% of PTC. Most clinical studies have demonstrated an association 
of BRAF(V600E) mutation with aggressive clinicopathological characteristics and 
high tumour recurrence, although the results are controversial. In this study we 
present the preliminary results of BRAF mutation frequence in a group of 88 
Polish patients with papillary thyroid cancer (PTC) and relate it to the outcome 
all DTC patients operated in 2004 and 2005. BRAF (V600E) mutation was diagnosed 
in 38 (43%) of cases.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The presence of BRAF mutation was evaluated in 88 PTC 
tumours. DNA was isolated from tissue parafin blocks, and the mutation V600E was 
evaluated by sequence analysis with an AbiPrism 377 and 3130 xl genetic analyzer 
(Life Technologies). Statistical analysis was carried out with the use of SPSS 
12 software. The chi² and Kaplan-Meyer survival analysis were performed.
RESULTS: From all analyzed clinico-pathological factors, only older age 
positively correlated with BRAF mutation frequency (p = 0.0017). Lymph 
node/distant metastases, multifocality, and extra-thyroid extension did not 
correlate with BRAF status. One cancer related death and two reccurences were 
observed in the BRAF+ group while one relapse was diagnosed in the BRAF- group.
CONCLUSIONS: Although many studies document BRAF mutation as a prognostic factor 
in PTC our results underline that it is too early to consider it as a routine 
clinical predictive factor.

PMID: 21049459 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


357. US News World Rep. 2010 Nov;147(10):72.

Volunteering does a body good. For the heart and the spirit, experts say, give a 
little and you will get a lot back.

Haupt A.

PMID: 21049689 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


358. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2010 Dec;32(11-12):1332-42. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2036.2010.04450.x. Epub 2010 Sep 13.

A UK-based cost-utility analysis of radiofrequency ablation or oesophagectomy 
for the management of high-grade dysplasia in Barrett's oesophagus.

Boger PC(1), Turner D, Roderick P, Patel P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Luminal Gastroenterology, Southampton General Hospital, UK. 
philboger@btinternet.com

BACKGROUND: In the UK, oesophagectomy is the current recommendation for patients 
with persistent high-grade dysplasia in Barrett's oesophagus. Radiofrequency 
ablation is an alternative new technology with promising early trial results.
AIM: To undertake a cost-utility analysis comparing these two strategies.
METHODS: We constructed a Markov model to simulate the natural history of a 
cohort of patients with high-grade dysplasia in Barrett's oesophagus undergoing 
one of two treatment options: (i) oesophagectomy or (ii) radiofrequency ablation 
followed by endoscopic surveillance with oesophagectomy for high-grade dysplasia 
recurrence or persistence.
RESULTS: In the base case analysis, radiofrequency ablation dominated as it 
generated 0.4 extra quality of life years at a cost saving of £1902. For 
oesophagectomy to be the most cost-effective option, it required a 
radiofrequency ablation treatment failure rate (high-grade dysplasia persistence 
or progression to cancer) of >44%, or an annual risk of high-grade dysplasia 
recurrence or progression to cancer in the ablated oesophagus of >15% per annum. 
There was an 85% probability that radiofrequency ablation remained 
cost-effective at the NICE willingness to pay threshold range of £20 000-30 000.
CONCLUSION: Radiofrequency ablation is likely to be a cost-effective option for 
high-grade dysplasia in Barrett's oesophagus in the UK.

© 2010 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2036.2010.04450.x
PMID: 21050235 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


359. Breast J. 2010 Sep-Oct;16 Suppl 1:S39-41. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4741.2010.01002.x.

Immunoprevention and immunotherapy of mammary carcinoma.

Lollini PL(1), Nicoletti G, Landuzzi L, De Giovanni C, Nanni P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology and Oncological Sciences, University of Bologna, 
Bologna, Italy. pierluigi.lollini@unibo.it

Cancer immunoprevention posits that the enhancement of immune defenses in 
healthy individuals could control tumor onset. Immunoprevention of viral tumors 
is already implemented at the population level for human hepatocellular and 
cervical carcinomas. Altogether, viral vaccines could prevent more than 10% of 
all human tumors. The big question is whether immunoprevention can be applied to 
nonviral tumors, including breast cancer. Promising results were obtained in 
preclinical models, in particular in HER-2/neu transgenic mice, which are prone 
to mammary carcinoma development, using vaccines against HER-2/neu oncoprotein 
p185. The life expectancy of vaccinated mice was more than doubled. Protective 
immune mechanisms elicited by effective vaccines were mainly based on helper T 
cell cytokines, in particular γ-interferon, and anti-p185 antibodies. The term 
"oncoantigens" was coined to define those antigenic molecules that, like HER-2, 
are indispensable for tumor growth, thus representing the best class of targets 
for cancer immunoprevention. The study of immunopreventive vaccines against 
subsequent phases of neoplastic progression showed a dramatic loss of efficacy 
against established mammary carcinomas, whereas the prevention of 
micrometastasis growth was successful. Preclinical results provide useful 
indications for the translation of cancer immunoprevention to humans, and useful 
hints for cancer immunotherapy.

© 2010 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4741.2010.01002.x
PMID: 21050308 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


360. BMC Geriatr. 2010 Nov 4;10:83. doi: 10.1186/1471-2318-10-83.

Use of health services and medicines amongst Australian war veterans: a 
comparison of young elderly, near centenarians and centenarians.

Roughead EE(1), Kalisch LM, Ramsay EN, Ryan P, Gilbert AL.

Author information:
(1)Quality Use of Medicines and Pharmacy Research Centre, School of Pharmacy and 
Medical Sciences, University of South Australia, Adelaide, Australia.

BACKGROUND: Age and life expectancy of residents in many developed countries, 
including Australia, is increasing. Health resource and medicine use in the very 
old is not well studied. The purpose of this study was to identify annual use of 
health services and medicines by very old Australian veterans; those aged 95 to 
99 years (near centenarians) and those aged 100 years and over (centenarians).
METHODS: The study population included veterans eligible for all health services 
subsidised by the Department of Veterans' Affairs (DVA) aged 95 years and over 
at August 1st 2006. A cohort of veterans aged 65 to 74 years was identified for 
comparison. Data were sourced from DVA claims databases. We identified all 
claims between August 1st 2006 and July 31st 2007 for medical consultations, 
pathology, diagnostic imaging and allied health services, hospital admissions, 
number of prescriptions and unique medicines. Chi squared tests were used to 
compare the proportion of centenarians (those aged 100 years and over) and near 
centenarians (those aged 95 to 99 years) who accessed medicines and health 
services with the 65 to 74 year age group. For those who accessed health 
services during follow up, Poisson regression was used to compare differences in 
the number of times centenarians and near centenarians accessed each health 
service compared to 65 to 74 year olds.
RESULTS: A similar proportion (98%) of centenarians and near centenarians 
compared to those aged 65 to 74 consulted a GP and received prescription 
medicine during follow up. A lower proportion of centenarians and near 
centenarians had claims for specialist visits (36% and 57% respectively), 
hospitalisation (19% and 24%), dental (12% and 18%), physiotherapy (13% and 
15%), pathology(68% and 78%) and diagnostic imaging services (51% and 68%) (p < 
0.0001) and a higher proportion had claims for care plans (19% and 25%), 
occupational therapy (15% and 17%) and podiatry services (54% and 58%) (p < 
0.0001). Compared to those aged 65 to 74, a lower proportion of centenarians and 
near centenarians received antihypertensives, lipid lowering therapy, 
antiinflammatories, and antidepressants (p < 0.0001) and a higher proportion 
received antibiotics, analgesics, diuretics, laxatives, and anti-anaemics (p < 
0.0001).
CONCLUSIONS: Medical consultations and medicines are the health services most 
frequently accessed by Australian veteran centenarians and near centenarians. 
For most health services, the proportion of very old people who access them is 
similar to or less than younger elderly. Our results support the findings of 
other studies which suggest that longevity is not necessarily associated with 
excessive health service use.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2318-10-83
PMCID: PMC2989975
PMID: 21050484 [Indexed for MEDLINE]361. J Health Econ. 2011 Jan;30(1):1-10. doi: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2010.10.002.
Epub  2010 Nov 3.

From Angela's ashes to the Celtic tiger: early life conditions and adult health 
in Ireland.

Delaney L(1), McGovern M, Smith JP.

Author information:
(1)UCD School of Economics & UCD School of Public Health & Population Science, 
UCD Geary Institute, University College Dublin, Belfield, Dublin 4, Ireland. 
Liam.Delaney@ucd.ie

We use data from the Irish census and exploit regional and temporal variation in 
infant mortality rates over the 20th century to examine effects of early life 
conditions on later life health. The urban mortality penalty collapsed in 
Ireland in the years right after World War II. Our main identification is public 
health interventions centered on improved sanitation and food safety, which we 
believed played a leading role in eliminating the Irish urban infant mortality 
penalty. Our estimates suggest that a unit decrease in mortality rates at time 
of birth reduces the probability of being disabled as an adult by about 12-18%.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2010.10.002
PMCID: PMC3053035
PMID: 21051095 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


362. J Nucl Med. 2010 Nov;51(11):1668-75. doi: 10.2967/jnumed.109.072090.

Cost-effectiveness of hybrid PET/CT for staging of non-small cell lung cancer.

Schreyögg J(1), Weller J, Stargardt T, Herrmann K, Bluemel C, Dechow T, Glatting 
G, Krause BJ, Mottaghy F, Reske SN, Buck AK.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Health Economics and Health Care Management, Helmholtz Zentrum 
München, German Research Center for Environmental Health, Neuherberg, Germany. 
schreyoegg@bwl.lmu.de

Comment in
    J Nucl Med. 2010 Nov;51(11):1665-7.

Although the diagnostic effectiveness of integrated PET/CT for staging of 
non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) has already been proven, it remains to be 
determined if tumor staging with combined metabolic and anatomic imaging is also 
cost-effective. The objective of this study was to evaluate from a payers' 
perspective the cost-effectiveness of staging NSCLC with CT alone (representing 
the mainstay diagnostic test) and with integrated PET/CT.
METHODS: The study is based on 172 NSCLC patients from a prospective clinical 
study who underwent diagnostic, contrast-enhanced helical CT and integrated 
PET/CT. Imaging was performed at the University Hospital Ulm between May 2002 
and December 2004. To calculate treatment costs, we differentiated among cost 
for diagnosis, cost for nonsurgical treatment according to the clinical 
diagnosis, and cost for surgical procedures according to the clinical tumor 
stage.
RESULTS: The diagnostic effectiveness in terms of correct TNM staging was 40% 
(31/77) for CT alone and 60% (46/77) for PET/CT. For the assessment of 
resectability (tumor stages Ia-IIIa vs. IIIb-IV), 65 of 77 patients (84%) were 
staged correctly by PET/CT (CT alone, 70% [54/77]). The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios per correctly staged patient were $3,508 for PET/CT 
versus CT alone. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratios per quality-adjusted 
life year gained were $79,878 for PET/CT vs. CT alone, decreasing to $69,563 
assuming a reduced loss of utility (0.10 quality-adjusted life years) due to 
surgical morbidity.
CONCLUSION: Cost-effectiveness analyses showed that costs for PET/CT are within 
the commonly accepted range for diagnostic tests or therapies. Therefore, 
reimbursement of PET/CT for NSCLC staging can be also recommended from an 
economic point of view.

DOI: 10.2967/jnumed.109.072090
PMID: 21051648 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


363. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2011 Mar 1;52(3):1586-92. doi:
10.1167/iovs.10-6287.

Internal limiting membrane peeling versus no peeling for idiopathic 
full-thickness macular hole: a pragmatic randomized controlled trial.

Lois N(1), Burr J, Norrie J, Vale L, Cook J, McDonald A, Boachie C, Ternent L, 
McPherson G; Full-thickness Macular Hole and Internal Limiting Membrane Peeling 
Study (FILMS) Group.

Collaborators: Atta H, Beatty S, Cleary C, Dick A, Ellis J, Forrester J, 
Groenewald C, Haynes R, Heimann H, Khan MI, Kilmartin D, Lois N, Murdoch J, 
Orakzai A, Patel CK, Pearce I, Saddik T, Steel D, Wong D, Cottriall C, Daly C, 
Duncan L, McEwing K, Muir S, Murphy A, Keys S, Lindsell L, Tompkin V, Ainley T, 
Beatty V, Bennerson G, Bolton A, Brett J, Farrow A, Jackson R, Johnston T, 
Kinsella M, Neilson S, Nolan H, Stanley S, Talbot J, Manivannan A, Murray G, 
Aylward B, Williamson T.

Author information:
(1)Ophthalmology Department, Grampian University Hospitals-NHS (National Health 
Service) Trust, Aberdeen, United Kingdom. noemilois@aol.com

PURPOSE: To determine whether internal limiting membrane (ILM) peeling is 
effective and cost effective compared with no peeling in patients with 
idiopathic stage 2 or 3 full-thickness maculay hole (FTMH).
METHODS: This was a pragmatic multicenter randomized controlled trial. Eligible 
participants from nine centers were randomized to ILM peeling or no peeling (1:1 
ratio) in addition to phacovitrectomy, including detachment and removal of the 
posterior hyaloid and gas tamponade. The primary outcome was distance visual 
acuity (VA) at 6 months after surgery. Secondary outcomes included hole closure, 
distance VA at other time points, near VA, contrast sensitivity, reading speed, 
reoperations, complications, resource use, and participant-reported health 
status, visual function, and costs.
RESULTS: Of 141 participants randomized in nine centers, 127 (90%) completed the 
6-month follow-up. Nonstatistically significant differences in distance visual 
acuity at 6 months were found between groups (mean difference, 4.8; 95% 
confidence interval [CI], -0.3 to 9.8; P = 0.063). There was a significantly 
higher rate of hole closure in the ILM-peel group (56 [84%] vs. 31 [48%]) at 1 
month (odds ratio [OR], 6.23; 95% CI, 2.64-14.73; P < 0.001) with fewer 
reoperations (8 [12%] vs. 31 [48%]) performed by 6 months (OR, 0.14; 95% CI, 
0.05-0.34; P < 0.001). Peeling the ILM is likely to be cost effective.
CONCLUSIONS: There was no evidence of a difference in distance VA after the ILM 
peeling and no-ILM peeling techniques. An important benefit in favor of no ILM 
peeling was ruled out. Given the higher anatomic closure and lower reoperation 
rates in the ILM-peel group, ILM peeling seems to be the treatment of choice for 
idiopathic stage 2 to 3 FTMH. (Clinical Trials.gov number, NCT00286507.).

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.10-6287
PMID: 21051731 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


364. Cardiol Res Pract. 2010 Nov 1;2011:901651. doi: 10.4061/2011/901651.

Lessons from studies in middle-aged and older adults living in mediterranean 
islands: the role of dietary habits and nutrition services.

Tyrovolas S(1), Polychronopoulos E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutrition and Dietetics, Harokopio University, 17671 Kallithea, 
El. Benizelou 70, Attica, Athens, Greece.

Background. Islands in the Mediterranean basin share particular habits and 
traditions and greater life expectancy than other European regions. In this 
paper, particular interest has been given to the effect of the Mediterranean 
diet, as well as nutritional services on CVD risk, on Mediterranean islands. 
Methods. Published results from observational studies were retrieved from 
electronic databases (Pubmed and Scopus) and summarized. Results. Prevalence of 
CVD risk factors is increased. Adherence to the Mediterranean diet was moderate, 
even among the elderly participants. Furthermore, the presence of a dietician 
was associated with higher adherence to the Mediterranean dietary pattern and 
consequently lowers CVD risk. Conclusion. Adherence to the Mediterranean diet is 
reduced, while the prevalence of CVD risk factors is increasing at alarming 
rates. Public health nutrition policy has the opportunity to improve the health 
and quality of life of people living in isolated insular areas of the 
Mediterranean basin.

DOI: 10.4061/2011/901651
PMCID: PMC2967833
PMID: 21052493


365. Arch Pharm Res. 2010 Oct;33(10):1589-609. doi: 10.1007/s12272-010-1010-y.
Epub  2010 Oct 30.

Potential therapeutic agents against Alzheimer's disease from natural sources.

Park SY(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nanobiomedical Science, College of Advanced Science, Dankook 
University, Chungnam, Korea. soypark23@dankook.ac.kr

The average human life span in developed countries has increased to more than 80 
years following rapid breakthrough and developments in modern medicine and 
science, resulting in prolonged life expectancy and increase in the population 
counts of the geriatric age group. This translates into a dramatic increase in 
disease burden of elderly patients suffering from senile disorders including 
neurodegenerative diseases, particularly Alzheimer's disease (AD). AD is 
characterized by the death of nerve cells in the cerebral cortex and is the most 
common subtype of dementia that affected 25 million people worldwide in 2000 and 
is expected to increase to 114 million by 2050. Despite the exponential growth 
in the number of AD patients, only acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitors are 
being currently used to treat AD. It is well known that AChE inhibitors can 
alleviate the symptoms of AD but not halt the disease progression. Consequently, 
therapeutic agents against AD acting at various pathologic levels are needed. In 
the recent decade, natural products with anti-AD properties have attracted much 
attention. But very few natural products have been investigated in a 
scientifically justifiable method for these biological activities. Following a 
detailed research process, it is certain that natural products have a strong 
potential to develop biologically active compounds with new chemical structures. 
Many studies have been carried out to identify the naturally occurring anti-AD 
agents. This review article describes the molecular targets aiming at developing 
the anti-AD agents including the inhibition of AChE, inhibition of Aβ production 
by enhancing α-secretase (non-amyloidogenic pathway) or inhibiting β- and 
γ-secretases (amyloidogenic pathway), alleviating Aβ-induced neurotoxicity or 
reducing Aβ-induced neuroinflammation. In addition, this paper summarizes the 
potential of some of the natural products that might inhibit specific molecular 
targets and slow the progression of this disease.

