
Comment in
    Can J Surg. 2011 Jun;54(3):152-3.

BACKGROUND: Surgical treatment of obesity is cost-effective and improves life 
expectancy. Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RYGB) and adjustable gastric banding (AGB) 
are dominant surgical techniques, but RYGB is the only publicly insured 
procedure in all Canadian provinces. Private clinics currently offer AGB with 
minimal wait times. We sought to compare RYGB in public facilities with AGB in 
private clinics in terms of cost, wait times and certain aspects of patient 
care.
METHODS: We conducted telephone interviews of all bariatric surgery providers 
across Canada (100% response rate). We asked about various aspects of care, such 
as wait time, cost, pre- and postoperative care and surgeon experience.
RESULTS: The median out-of-pocket cost for AGB at private facilities is $16,000 
(range $13,160-$18,375). Private clinics have much shorter wait times for AGB 
than public facilities do for RYGB (1 v. 21 mo, p < 0.001). Private clinics 
provide significantly fewer preoperative visits with multidisciplinary health 
professionals (2.7 v. 4.3, p = 0.045), and 5 of 12 (42%) private clinics conduct 
AGB surgeries without on-site critical care for high-risk (based on the 
respondents' definitions) patients.
CONCLUSION: Private clinics performing AGB offer short wait times, but the cost 
is high. We found a great deal of variation between pre- and postoperative care 
among bariatric surgery facilities, and in some cases patient care appears to be 
less comprehensive. Our findings suggest that further research on obesity 
treatment is needed to inform policy so that all Canadians can have equitable 
and timely access to proven, evidence-based care.

CONTEXTE: Le coût du traitement chirurgical de l’obésité présente un bon rapport 
coût-efficacité et améliore l’espérance de vie. Le pontage gastrique Roux-en-Y 
(PGRY) et l’anneau gastrique ajustable (AGA) constituent les principales 
techniques chirurgicales, mais le PGRY est la seule intervention assurée par le 
secteur public dans toutes les provinces du Canada. Les cliniques privées 
offrent actuellement l’AGA après un temps d’attente minimal. Nous avons cherché 
à comparer la technique PGRY pratiquée dans des établissements publics à celle 
de l’AGA pratiquée dans des cliniques privées pour ce qui est des coûts, des 
temps d’attente et de certains aspects du soin des patients.
MÉTHODES: Nous avons réalisé des entrevues téléphoniques auprès de tous les 
four-nisseurs de services de chirurgie bariatrique au Canada (taux de réponse de 
100 %). Nous avons posé des questions sur divers aspects des soins comme les 
temps d’attente, le coût, les soins préopératoires et postopératoires, et 
l’expérience du chirurgien.
RÉSULTATS: Le coût direct médian de l’AGA dans les établissements privés 
s’établit à 16 000 $ (intervalle de 13 160 $ à 18 375 $). Les cliniques privées 
affichent des temps d’attente beaucoup plus courts pour l’AGA que les 
établissements publics dans le cas du PGRY (1 c. 21 mois, p < 0,001). Les 
cliniques privées fournissent un nombre significativement moins élevé de 
consultations préopératoires avec des équipes multidisciplinaires de 
professionnels de la santé (2,7 c. 4,3, p = 0,045) et 5 cliniques privées sur 12 
(42 %) pratiquent des interventions chirurgicales de mise en place d’un AGA sans 
offrir de soins intensifs sur place pour les patients à risque élevé (selon les 
définitions des répondants).
CONCLUSION: Les cliniques privées qui posent des AGA offrent des temps d’attente 
plus courts, mais le coût est élevé. Nous avons constaté une variation 
importante au niveau des soins préopératoires et postopératoires offerts par les 
établissements qui pratiquent la chirurgie bariatrique et dans certains cas, le 
soin des patients semble moins complet. Nos constatations indiquent qu’une 
recherche plus poussée sur le traitement de l’obésité s’impose pour éclairer les 
politiques afin que tous les Canadiens puissent avoir un accès équitable et 
opportun à des soins factuels et éprouvés.

DOI: 10.1503/cjs.048909
PMCID: PMC3104310
PMID: 21609516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


725. Health Technol Assess. 2011 May;15 Suppl 1:1-12. doi:
10.3310/hta15suppl1/01.

Bevacizumab in combination with a taxane for the first-line treatment of 
HER2-negative metastatic breast cancer.

Rodgers M(1), Soares M, Epstein D, Yang H, Fox D, Eastwood A.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Reviews and Dissemination, University of York, York, UK. 
mr14@york.ac.uk

This paper presents a summary of the evidence review group (ERG) report into the 
use of bevacizumab (Avastin®, Roche) in combination with a taxane for the 
treatment of untreated metastatic breast cancer (mBC). The main clinical 
effectiveness data were derived from a single, open-label randomised controlled 
trial (RCT) (E2100) that evaluated the addition of bevacizumab to weekly (q.w.) 
paclitaxel in patients with human epidermal growth factor receptor 2-negative 
mBC who had not previously received chemotherapy for advanced disease. This 
trial reported statistically significant increases in median progression-free 
survival (PFS) for the addition of bevacizumab (5.8-11.3 months). Median overall 
survival was not significantly different between the two groups; whether this is 
a true null finding or due to crossover between treatment arms cannot be 
established, as relevant data were not collected. The manufacturer reported that 
the addition of bevacizumab to paclitaxel q.w. therapy was associated with a 
significant improvement in quality of life, as measured by FACT-B (functional 
assessment of cancer therapy for breast cancer) scores. However, the ERG noted 
that these results were based on extreme imputed values, the removal of which 
led to non-significant differences in quality of life. The manufacturer 
conducted an indirect comparison. However, owing to methodological limitations 
and concerns about the validity and exchangeability of the included trials, the 
ERG did not consider the findings to be reliable. One additional relevant RCT 
[AVADO (Avastin and Docetaxel); BO17708] evaluating the addition of bevacizumab 
to docetaxel was excluded from the manufacturer's submission. This was 
summarised by the ERG. In terms of response rate and PFS, AVADO reported a 
markedly smaller benefit of adding bevacizumab to docetaxel than that reported 
for adding bevacizumab to q.w. paclitaxel in E2100. AVADO also reported no 
statistically significant effect of combination therapy versus docetaxel in 
terms of overall survival. The manufacturer developed a de novo economic model 
that considered patients with the same baseline characteristics as women in the 
E2100 trial. The model assessed BEV + PAC - bevacizumab 10 mg/kg every 2 weeks 
in combination with paclitaxel 90 mg/m2 weekly for 3 weeks followed by 1 week of 
rest; PAC q.w. - paclitaxel (monotherapy) 90 mg/m2 weekly for 3 weeks followed 
by 1 week of rest; DOC - docetaxel (monotherapy) 75 mg/m2 on day 1 every 21 days 
(considered current UK NHS clinical practice in the submission); and GEM + PAC - 
gemcitabine 1250 mg/m2 on days 1 and 8 plus paclitaxel 175 mg/m2 on day 1 every 
21 days. Pairwise comparisons were made between BEV + PAC and PAC (using the 
E2100 trial), BEV + PAC and DOC, and BEV + PAC and GEM + PAC. Based on NHS list 
prices, the manufacturer's model estimated incremental cost-effectiveness ratios 
(ICERs) for BEV + PAC of £ 117,803, £ 115,059 and £ 105,777 per QALY gained, 
relative to PAC, DOC and GEM + PAC regimens, respectively. If the NHS Purchasing 
and Supply Agency prices for PAC with a 10-g cap on the cost per patient of BEV 
were used instead, the ICERs for BEV + PAC were estimated at £ 77,314, £ 57,753 
and £ 60,101 per QALY, respectively. The submission suggested that the regimen 
of BEV + DOC is not cost-effective because it is considered less effective and 
more costly than BEV + PAC. Analysis by the ERG suggested that alternative 
assumptions can increase the ICERs further and, based on current prices, no 
plausible changes to the model assumptions will bring the ICERs for BEV + PAC 
lower.

DOI: 10.3310/hta15suppl1/01
PMID: 21609648 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


726. Health Technol Assess. 2011 May;15 Suppl 1:13-21. doi:
10.3310/hta15suppl1/02.

Omalizumab for the treatment of severe persistent allergic asthma in children 
aged 6-11 years.

Walker S(1), Burch J, McKenna C, Wright K, Griffin S, Woolacott N.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Reviews and Dissemination, University of York, York, UK. 
simon.walker@york.ac.uk

This paper presents a summary of the evidence review group report into the 
clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of omalizumab for the treatment of 
severe persistent asthma in children aged 6-11 years, based upon the evidence 
submission from Novartis Pharmaceutical UK Ltd to the National Institute for 
Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) as part of the single technology appraisal 
process. The manufacturer's submission was generally considered to be of good 
quality. The submission was based primarily on a preplanned subgroup IA-05 EUP 
(European Union Population) from the IA-05 trial, with outcomes including the 
number of clinically significant (CS) and clinically significant severe (CSS) 
exacerbations. Omalizumab therapy was associated with a statistically 
significant reduction in the rate of CS exacerbations, but the reduction in the 
rate of CSS exacerbations was not statistically significant. The benefit in 
terms of CS exacerbations was achieved mainly in patients with more than three 
exacerbations per year at baseline. The manufacturer found no previous published 
cost-effectiveness studies of omalizumab in children aged 6-11 years, so their 
de novo economic evaluation formed the basis of the submitted economic evidence. 
The economic model was considered appropriate for the decision problem. The 
results from the model indicated that omalizumab in addition to standard therapy 
compared with standard therapy alone did not appear cost-effective in either the 
overall population or a subgroup of patients hospitalised in the year prior to 
enrollment, with incremental cost-effectiveness ratios of £ 91,169 and £ 65,911 
per quality-adjusted life-year, respectively. These findings were found to be 
robust across a wide range of alternative assumptions through one-way 
sensitivity analyses. The guidance issued by NICE states that omalizumab is not 
recommended for the treatment of severe persistent allergic asthma in children 
aged 6-11 years.

DOI: 10.3310/hta15suppl1/02
PMID: 21609649 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


727. Health Technol Assess. 2011 May;15 Suppl 1:23-32. doi:
10.3310/hta15suppl1/03.

Eltrombopag for the treatment of chronic idiopathic (immune) thrombocytopenic 
purpura (ITP).

Boyers D(1), Jia X, Crowther M, Jenkinson D, Fraser C, Mowatt G.

Author information:
(1)Aberdeen Health Technology Assessment Group, University of Aberdeen, 
Aberdeen, UK. d.boyers@abdn.ac.uk

This paper presents a summary of the evidence review group (ERG) report into the 
clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of eltrombopag for the treatment 
of adults with chronic idiopathic (immune) thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP), based 
on a review of the manufacturer's submission (MS) to the National Institute for 
Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) as part of the single technology appraisal 
process. ITP is an autoimmune disorder by which antibodies are formed against 
platelets with annual incidence rates in the UK/USA ranging from 1.13 to 6.62 
cases per 100,000 adults. Eltrombopag increases the production of platelets at a 
rate that outpaces their destruction by the immune system, and has a UK 
marketing authorisation both for the treatment of adult ITP in splenectomised 
patients who are refractory to other treatments and as a second-line treatment 
for adult non-splenectomised patients for whom surgery is contraindicated. Both 
splenectomised and non-splenectomised patient groups were considered in the 
analysis. Two economic models were presented, one for a watch-and-rescue 
treatment scenario and the second for the long-term treatment of patients with 
more severe ITP. The submission's evidence was sourced from the relatively 
high-quality RAISE [RAndomized placebo-controlled Idiopathic thrombocytopenic 
purpura (ITP) Study with Eltrombopag] randomised controlled trial. The study 
indicated a statistically significant difference in favour of eltrombopag 
compared with placebo in the odds of achieving the primary outcome of a platelet 
count of between 50 and 400 × 109/l during the 6-month treatment period (odds 
ratio 8.2, 99% confidence interval 3.6 to 18.7). In the eltrombopag group, 50/83 
(60%) non-splenectomised patients and 18/49 (37%) splenectomised patients 
achieved this outcome. Median duration of response for all patients was 10.9 
weeks (splenectomised patients 6 weeks and non-splenectomised patients 13.4 
weeks). Patients treated with eltrombopag required less rescue medication and 
had lower odds of bleeding events than placebo-treated subjects in both patient 
groups. In the watch-and-rescue economic model, the ERG found that substantial 
reductions in the cost of eltrombopag are needed for the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) to fall below £ 30,000. Further analyses found 
that the ICER varied from £33,561 to £ 103,500 per quality-adjusted life-year 
(QALY) (splenectomised) and from £ 39,657 to £ 150,245 per QALY 
(non-splenectomised). Other than bleeding, no adverse events were modelled. In 
relation to the long-term treatment model, the ERG found that using 
non-randomised non-comparative data may result in biased estimates of unknown 
magnitude and direction. None of the treatment sequences resulted in an ICER 
approaching the recommended threshold of £ 30,000. The base-case results, using 
a 2-year time horizon and prescribing eltrombopag as second-line treatment post 
rituximab, were found to be favourable towards eltrombopag. In conclusion, based 
on the MS and additional ERG work, eltrombopag appears to be a safe treatment 
for ITP (although long-term follow-up studies are awaited) and has short-term 
efficacy. However, there is no robust evidence on long-term efficacy or 
cost-effectiveness of eltrombopag, and there is a lack of robust direct evidence 
on the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of eltrombopag compared with other 
relevant comparators. NICE did not recommend eltrombopag for the treatment of 
chronic ITP within its marketing authorisation for splenectomised or 
non-splenectomised patients.

DOI: 10.3310/hta15suppl1/03
PMID: 21609650 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


728. Health Technol Assess. 2011 May;15 Suppl 1:33-42. doi:
10.3310/hta15suppl1/04.

Trastuzumab for the treatment of HER2-positive metastatic adenocarcinoma of the 
stomach or gastro-oesophageal junction.

Norman G(1), Rice S, Spackman E, Stirk L, Danso-Appiah A, Suh D, Palmer S, 
Eastwood A.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Reviews and Dissemination, University of York, York, UK. 
gn5@york.ac.uk

This paper presents a summary of the evidence review group (ERG) report into 
trastuzumab for the treatment of human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 
(HER2)-positive metastatic adenocarcinoma of the stomach (mGC) or 
gastro-oesophageal junction. HER2 positivity is defined by immunohistochemistry 
(IHC)3+ or IHC2+/fluorescence in situ hybridisation (FISH)+. The decision 
problem addressed was the testing of the whole mGC population with IHC and, for 
IHC2+ patients, also with FISH, followed by treatment of HER2-positive patients 
with trastuzumab combined with cisplatin and either capecitabine or 
5-fluorouracil (5-FU) [HCX (trastuzumab, cisplatin, capecitabine)/fluorouracil 
(F)] compared with current standard NHS therapy. The manufacturer's submission 
contained direct evidence from the ToGA trial, a well-conducted, multinational, 
phase III randomised controlled trial (RCT) that compared HCX/F with cisplatin 
and a fluoropyrimidine alone [cisplatin, capecitabine (CX)/F]. HCX/F showed 
statistically significantly better overall survival in the European Medicines 
Agency-licensed population subgroup (74%) (hazard ratio 0.65, 95% confidence 
interval 0.51 to 0.83), corresponding to median survival of 16 months versus 
11.8 months. No other evidence exists for the efficacy of any therapy in a known 
HER2-positive mGC population; other comparisons extrapolate from trials in mixed 
HER2 status populations. The ERG accepted the manufacturer's view that a 
meaningful network meta-analysis to establish a comparison for HCX/F compared 
with current standard NHS therapy [epirubicin, cisplatin, capecitabine 
(ECX)/epirubicin, oxaliplatin, capecitabine (EOX)/epirubicin, cisplatin, 5-FU 
(ECF)] was not possible, but was unconvinced by arguments advanced in the 
alternative narrative synthesis. These involved disregarding evidence from a 
meta-analysis and interpreting non-significant results of small RCTs comparing 
epirubicin-containing triplets with cisplatin, 5-FU (CF)/capecitabine (X) 
doublets as evidence of no difference between triplet and doublet regimens. The 
high CX/F dose in the ToGA trial was an additional basis for the contention of 
equivalence. An appropriate de novo economic evaluation, including an economic 
model that separately compared HCX or trastuzumab, cisplatin, 5-FU (HCF) with 
the triplet regimens ECX, EOX and ECF, based on a simple, three-state cohort 
model (progression-free, disease, progression and death), was submitted. Utility 
weights were applied to estimate quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs). Costs were 
assessed from an NHS perspective, and incorporated the acquisition and 
monitoring costs of the alternative regimens, HER2 testing, adverse events and 
other supportive care costs. An 8-year time horizon was used to represent a 
lifetime analysis. Results from the ToGA trial were combined with a series of 
assumptions on relative treatment effects and testing strategies. The 
manufacturer's results produced an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) 
of £ 53,010 per QALY for HCX versus ECX. Although the manufacturer undertook a 
detailed set of sensitivity analyses, several alternative model assumptions were 
not evaluated. The ERG undertook a series of alternative base-case analyses. As 
a result of these analyses, EOX replaced ECX as the appropriate comparator, and 
the ICER for the comparison of HCX vs EOX increased to between £ 66,982 and £ 
71,636 per QALY. The impact of implementation of alternative testing strategies 
remained unclear. There is also considerable uncertainty surrounding the true 
estimate of effectiveness for the comparison between triplet regimens containing 
epirubicin (ECX/ECF/EOX) and doublet CX/F regimens. Consequently, the view of 
the ERG was that there is insufficient evidence on the efficacy of HCX/F 
compared with current NHS standard therapy for an ICER to be determined with any 
degree of certainty.

DOI: 10.3310/hta15suppl1/04
PMID: 21609651 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


729. Health Technol Assess. 2011 May;15 Suppl 1:51-9. doi:
10.3310/hta15suppl1/06.

Denosumab for the prevention of osteoporotic fractures in postmenopausal women.

Waugh N(1), Royle P, Scotland G, Henderson R, Hollick R, McNamee P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen, UK. 
n.r.waugh@abdn.ac.uk

This paper presents a summary of the evidence review group (ERG) report into 
denosumab for the prevention of osteoporotic fractures in postmenopausal women. 
Denosumab has been shown in a large randomised trial to reduce the frequency of 
osteoporotic fractures when given subcutaneously at 6-monthly intervals. 
Compared with placebo, the relative risks of clinical vertebral and hip 
fractures were 0.32 and 0.60, respectively. Clinical vertebral fractures 
occurred in 0.8% of women taking denosumab and 2.6% of control subjects. Hip 
fractures occurred in 1.2% of women on placebo and 0.7% on denosumab. The 
expected use is in women who cannot tolerate oral bisphosphonates. Other options 
in that situation include strontium ranelate and zoledronate, which, compared 
with placebo, also reduced the risk of clinical vertebral fractures [relative 
risk (RR) 0.65 and 0.23, respectively]. Zoledronate also significantly reduced 
the risk of hip fractures (RR 0.59). The ERG concluded that zoledronate was the 
main comparator. The relative cost-effectiveness of denosumab and zoledronate 
depends mainly on assumptions about costs of administration.

DOI: 10.3310/hta15suppl1/06
PMID: 21609653 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


730. Health Technol Assess. 2011 May;15 Suppl 1:61-7. doi:
10.3310/hta15suppl1/07.

Ofatumumab for the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia in patients who 
are refractory to fludarabine and alemtuzumab: a critique of the submission from 
GSK.

Hoyle M(1), Crathorne L, Garside R, Hyde C.

Author information:
(1)PenTAG, Peninsula College of Medicine and Dentistry, Universities of Exeter 
and Plymouth, UK. martin.hoyle@pms.ac.uk

This paper presents a summary of the evidence review group (ERG) report into the 
clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of ofatumumab for the treatment of 
refractory chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL), based upon the manufacturer's 
submission (MS) to the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence 
(NICE) as part of the single technology appraisal process. The submitted 
clinical evidence included one study: a non-randomised, single-arm study. Two 
other studies were identified but both were non-comparative and provided 
evidence for therapies other than ofatumumab. For this reason these studies were 
not discussed in full in the main body of the submission. In the Hx-CD20-406 
study, the overall response rate was 58% (99% confidence interval 40% to 74%, p 
< 0.001). Complete resolution of constitutional symptoms and improved 
performance status occurred in 57% of patients. Median progression-free survival 
(PFS) and overall survival (OS) times were 5.7 and 13.7 months, respectively. 
The most common adverse events during treatment were infusion reactions and 
infections, which were primarily grade 1 or 2 events. The MS concluded that 
ofatumumab provides a new, effective and well-tolerated therapy for patients 
with CLL who are refractory to both fludarabine and alemtuzumab [double 
refractory (DR)]. The ERG undertook a critical appraisal of the submission. The 
ERG had a number of concerns regarding the manufacturer's estimates of 
effectiveness based on evidence from a single-arm, non-randomised study. An 
'area-under-the-curve' or 'partitioned-survival' model was used to project 
expected clinical and economic outcomes for patients with DR CLL who were 
assumed to receive ofatumumab or best supportive care (BSC). The model had a 
three-state structure: 'alive pre-progression', 'alive post progression' and 
'dead'. Overall, the modelling approach is reasonable given the limited evidence 
available for the drug in the patient population under review. However, a number 
of uncertainties were identified in the economic evaluation; for example, the 
BSC arm used data from patients in the Hx-CD20-406 study who did not respond to 
ofatumumab treatment - 'non-responders' - and the ofatumumab arm used data from 
all of those treated in the Hx-CD20-406 study. Further uncertainty arose 
regarding the choice of utilities, the omission of 17p and 11q chromosomal 
deletions as factors in the Cox proportional hazards models for PFS and OS, and 
the omission of the costs of drugs in progressive disease. It was felt that 
these factors biased cost-effectiveness in favour of ofatumumab. When revisions 
were made to the assumptions in the model based on the ERG's review of the 
published and submitted evidence, the revised base-case incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio for ofatumumab increased to £ 81,500 per 
quality-adjusted life-year. The final appraisal determination was issued by NICE 
in September 2010 (www.nice.org.uk/nicemedia/live/12264/50758/50758.pdf).

DOI: 10.3310/hta15suppl1/07
PMID: 21609654 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


731. Health Technol Assess. 2011 May;15 Suppl 1:69-75. doi:
10.3310/hta15suppl1/08.

Trabectedin for the treatment of relapsed ovarian cancer.

Papaioannou D(1), Rafia R, Stevenson MD, Stevens JW, Evans P.

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Related Research (ScHARR), University of Sheffield, 30 
Regent Street, Sheffield, UK. d.papaioannou@sheffield.ac.uk

The paper presents a summary of the evidence review group (ERG) report into the 
clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of trabectedin for the treatment 
of relapsed platinum-sensitive ovarian cancer, based upon a review of the 
manufacturer's submission to the National Institute for Health and Clinical 
Excellence (NICE) as part of the single technology appraisal process. The 
submission addressed only part of the decision problem and did not provide 
evidence to compare trabectedin (Yondelis®, PharmaMar) and pegylated liposomal 
doxorubicin hydrochloride (PLDH) (Caelyx®, Schering-Plough) with key 
comparators. The submission's direct comparison evidence came from one 
reasonable-quality randomised controlled trial (RCT) of trabectedin and PLDH 
versus PLDH alone (ET743-OVA-301). The results of the RCT were subdivided into 
the entire platinum-sensitive population (> 6-month relapse after initial 
platinum-based chemotherapy) and partially platinum-sensitive (≥ 6- to 12-month 
relapse) and fully platinum-sensitive (> 12-month relapse) populations. The 
outcomes included were overall survival, progression-free survival measured by 
three types of assessor, response rates, adverse effects of treatment, 
health-related quality of life and cost per quality-adjusted-life-year (QALY) 
gained. A mixed treatment comparison (MTC) meta-analysis comparing trabectedin 
and PLDH with single-agent PLDH within the entire platinum-sensitive population, 
with paclitaxel or with topotecan also formed part of the submission. The RCT 
data showed that trabectedin plus PLDH compared with PLDH monotherapy had a 
significant effect on overall survival only within the partially 
platinum-sensitive subgroup. PFS results reported by the independent 
radiologists showed significant effects in favour of the trabectedin and PLDH 
arm for the entire and partially platinum-sensitive populations only. Rates of 
grade 3 and 4 adverse events were mostly higher in the trabectedin and PLDH arm 
than in the PLDH alone arm. There were several issues regarding the undertaking 
of the MTC, and thus the data were not considered robust. Furthermore, the ERG 
did not believe the MTC to be necessary to answer the decision problem. The 
manufacturer submitted a de novo cost-effectiveness model. The main analysis 
compared trabectedin in combination with PLDH versus paclitaxel, topotecan and 
PLDH (each as monotherapy) in the entire platinum-sensitive population, using 
results estimated from the MTC. Additional analyses were presented comparing 
trabectedin in combination with PLDH versus PLDH monotherapy using direct 
evidence from the OVA-301 trial for the fully, partially and entire 
platinum-sensitive populations. The cost per QALY gained for trabectedin in 
combination with PLDH versus PLDH monotherapy was estimated to be £ 70,076 in 
the main analysis. In the additional analyses, the cost per QALY gained for 
trabectedin in combination with PLDH versus PLDH monotherapy was £ 94,832, £ 
43,996 and £ 31,092 for the entire, partially and fully platinum-sensitive 
populations, respectively. Additional work was undertaken by the ERG using 
patient-level data and amending some assumptions to provide a better statistical 
fit to the Kaplan-Meier data than the exponential distribution assumed by the 
manufacturer. The ERG base-case estimate of the cost per QALY of trabectedin in 
combination with PLDH ranged from £46,503 to £54,607 in the partially 
platinum-sensitive population. At the time of writing, trabectedin in 
combination with PLDH for the treatment of women with relapsed 
platinum-sensitive ovarian cancer is not recommended by NICE in the final 
appraisal determination.

DOI: 10.3310/hta15suppl1/08
PMID: 21609655 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


732. Health Technol Assess. 2011 May;15 Suppl 1:77-86. doi:
10.3310/hta15suppl1/09.

Liraglutide for the treatment of type 2 diabetes.

Shyangdan D(1), Cummins E, Royle P, Waugh N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen, UK. 
d.s.shyangdan@abdn.ac.uk

This paper presents a summary of the evidence review group (ERG) report into the 
clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of liraglutide in the treatment of 
type 2 diabetes mellitus, based upon the manufacturer's submission to the 
National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) as part of the 
single technology appraisal process. The manufacturer proposed the use of 
liraglutide as a second or third drug in patients with type 2 diabetes whose 
glycaemic control was unsatisfactory with metformin, with or without a second 
oral glucose-lowering drug. The submission included six manufacturer-sponsored 
trials that compared the efficacy of liraglutide against other glucose-lowering 
agents. Not all of the trials were relevant to the decision problem. The most 
relevant were Liraglutide Effects and Actions in Diabetes 5 (LEAD-5) 
(liraglutide used as part of triple therapy and compared against insulin 
glargine) and LEAD-6 [liraglutide in triple therapy compared against another 
glucagon-like peptide-1 agonist, exenatide]. Five of the six trials were 
published in full and one was then unpublished. Two doses of liraglutide, 1.2 
and 1.8 mg, were used in some trials, but in the two comparisons in triple 
therapy, against glargine and exenatide, only the 1.8-mg dose was used. 
Liraglutide in both doses was found to be clinically effective in lowering blood 
glucose concentration [glycated haemoglobin (HbA1c)], reducing weight (unlike 
other glucose-lowering agents, such as sulphonylureas, glitazones and insulins, 
which cause weight gain) and also reducing systolic blood pressure (SBP). 
Hypoglycaemia was uncommon. The ERG carried out meta-analyses comparing the 1.2- 
and 1.8-mg doses of liraglutide, which suggested that there was no difference in 
control of diabetes, and only a slight difference in weight loss, insufficient 
to justify the extra cost. The cost-effectiveness analysis was carried out using 
the Center for Outcomes Research model. The health benefit was reported as 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs). The manufacturer estimated the 
cost-effectiveness to be £ 15,130 per QALY for liraglutide 1.8 mg compared with 
glargine, £ 10,054 per QALY for liraglutide 1.8 mg compared with exenatide, £ 
10,465 per QALY for liraglutide 1.8 mg compared with sitagliptin, and £ 9851 per 
QALY for liraglutide 1.2 mg compared with sitagliptin. The ERG conducted 
additional sensitivity analyses and concluded that the factors that carried most 
weight were: in the comparison with glargine, the direct utility effects of body 
mass index (BMI) changes and SBP, with some additional contribution from HbA1c, 
in the comparison with exenatide, HbA1c, with some additional effects from 
cholesterol and triglycerides in the comparison with sitagliptin, HbA1c and 
direct utility effects of BMI changes. The European Medicines Agency has 
approved liraglutide in dual therapy with other oral glucose-lowering agents. 
NICE guidance recommends the use of liraglutide 1.2 mg in triple therapy when 
glycaemic control remains or becomes inadequate with a combination of two oral 
glucose-lowering drugs. The use of liraglutide 1.2 mg in a dual therapy is 
indicated only in patients who are intolerant of, or have contraindications to, 
three oral glucose-lowering drugs. The use of liraglutide 1.8 mg was not 
approved by NICE. The ERG recommends research into the (currently unlicensed) 
use of liraglutide in combination with long-acting insulin.

DOI: 10.3310/hta15suppl1/09
PMID: 21609656 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


733. Health Technol Assess. 2011 May;15 Suppl 1:87-95. doi:
10.3310/hta15suppl1/10.

Golimumab for the treatment of psoriatic arthritis.

Yang H(1), Epstein D, Bojke L, Craig D, Light K, Bruce I, Sculpher M, Woolacott 
N.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Reviews and Dissemination (CRD), University of York, York, UK. 
hy505@york.ac.uk

This paper presents a summary of the evidence review group (ERG) report into the 
use of golimumab for the treatment of psoriatic arthritis (PsA). The main 
clinical effectiveness data were derived from a single phase III randomised 
controlled trial (RCT: GO-REVEAL) that compared golimumab with placebo for 
treating patients with active and progressive PsA who were symptomatic despite 
the use of previous disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs or non-steroidal 
anti-inflammatory drugs. The 14-week data showed that, compared with placebo, 
golimumab 50 mg significantly improved joint disease response as measured by 
American College of Rheumatology (ACR) 20 [relative risk (RR) 5.73, 95% 
confidence interval (CI) 3.24 to 10.56] and Psoriatic Arthritis Response 
Criteria (PsARC) (RR 3.45, 95% CI 2.49 to 4.87), and skin disease response as 
measured by the Psoriasis Area and Severity Index (PASI) 75 (RR 15.95, 95% CI 
4.62 to 59.11). The 24-week absolute data showed that these treatment benefits 
were maintained. There was a significant improvement in patients' functional 
status as measured by the Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ) change from 
baseline at 24 weeks (-0.33, p < 0.001). The open-label extension data showed 
that these beneficial effects were also maintained at 52 and 104 weeks. However, 
PASI 50 and PASI 90 at 14 weeks, and all of the PASI outcomes at 24 weeks, were 
not performed on the basis of intention-to-treat analysis. Furthermore, analyses 
of the 24-week data were less robust, failing to adjust for treatment 
contamination due to patient crossover at week 16. The manufacturer conducted a 
mixed treatment comparison (MTC) analysis. The ERG considered the assumption of 
exchangeability between the trials for the purpose of the MTC analysis to be 
acceptable, and the statistical approach in the MTC analysis to be reliable. 
Regarding the safety evaluation of golimumab, the manufacturer failed to provide 
longer-term data or to consider adverse event data of golimumab from controlled 
studies in other conditions, such as rheumatoid arthritis and ankylosing 
spondylitis. Although the adverse effect profile of golimumab appears similar to 
other anti-tumour necrosis factor (TNF) agents, the longer-term safety profile 
of golimumab remains uncertain. The manufacturer's submission presented a 
decision model to compare etanercept, infliximab, golimumab and adalimumab 
versus palliative care for patients with PsA. In the base-case model, 73% of the 
cohort of patients were assumed to have significant psoriasis (> 3% of body 
surface area). Estimates of the effectiveness of anti-TNF agents in terms of 
PsARC, HAQ change and PASI change were obtained from an MTC analysis of RCT 
data. The manufacturer failed to calculate incremental cost-effectiveness ratios 
(ICERs) correctly by comparing golimumab with palliative care instead of the 
most cost-effective alternative (etanercept). Despite the manufacturer's claim 
that golimumab is a cost-effective treatment option, the manufacturer's own 
model showed that golimumab is not cost-effective compared with other biologics 
when the ICERs are correctly calculated. None of the sensitivity analyses 
carried out by the manufacturer or the ERG regarding uncertainty in the 
estimates of clinical effectiveness, the acquisition and administration cost of 
drugs, the cost of treating psoriasis and the utility functions estimated to 
generate health outcomes changed this conclusion. However, a key area in 
determining the cost-effectiveness of anti-TNF agents is whether they should be 
treated as a class. If all anti-TNF agents are considered equally effective then 
etanercept, adalimumab and golimumab have very nearly equal costs and equal 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), and all have an ICER of about £ 15,000 per 
QALY versus palliative care, whereas infliximab with a higher acquisition cost 
is dominated by the other biologics.

DOI: 10.3310/hta15suppl1/10
PMID: 21609657 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


734. Theor Popul Biol. 2011 Aug;80(1):38-48. doi: 10.1016/j.tpb.2011.05.002. Epub
 2011 May 12.

A unifying framework for assessing changes in life expectancy associated with 
changes in mortality: the case of violent deaths.

Beltrán-Sánchez H(1), Soneji S.

Author information:
(1)Davis School of Gerontology at the University of Southern California, USA. 
beltrans@usc.edu

For over forty years, demographers have worked intensely to develop methods that 
assess a gain in life expectancy from a reduction in mortality, either 
hypothetical or observed. This considerable body of research was motivated by 
assessing the gains in life expectancy when mortality declined in a particular 
manner and determining the contribution of a cause of death in observed changes 
in life expectancy over time. As yet, there has been no framework unifying this 
important demographic work. In this paper, we provide a unifying framework for 
assessing the change in life expectancy given a change in age- and 
cause-specific mortality. We consider both conceptualizations of mortality 
change-counterfactual assessment of a hypothetical change and a retrospective 
assessment of an observed change. We apply our methodology to violent deaths, 
the leading cause of death among young adults, and show that realistic targeted 
reductions could have important impacts on life expectancy.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tpb.2011.05.002
PMCID: PMC3125714
PMID: 21609727 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


735. Br J Cancer. 2011 Jun 7;104(12):1848-53. doi: 10.1038/bjc.2011.179. Epub
2011  May 24.

A Q-TWiST analysis comparing panitumumab plus best supportive care (BSC) with 
BSC alone in patients with wild-type KRAS metastatic colorectal cancer.

Wang J(1), Zhao Z, Barber B, Sherrill B, Peeters M, Wiezorek J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, RTI Health Solutions, 3040 East Cornwallis Road, 
Post Office Box 12194, Research Triangle Park, NC 22709-2194, USA.

BACKGROUND: Panitumumab+best supportive care (BSC) significantly improved 
progression-free survival (PFS) vs BSC alone in patients with chemo-refractory 
wild-type KRAS metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC). We applied the 
quality-adjusted time without symptoms of disease or toxicity (Q-TWiST) analysis 
to provide an integrated measure of clinical benefit, with the objective of 
comparing quality-adjusted survival between the two arms. As the trial design 
allowed patients on BSC alone to receive panitumumab after disease progression, 
which confounded overall survival (OS), the focus of this analysis was on PFS.
METHODS: For each treatment group, the time spent in the toxicity (grade 3 or 4 
adverse events; TOX), time without symptoms of disease or toxicity (TWiST), and 
relapse (after disease progression; REL) states were estimated by the 
product-limit method, and adjusted using utility weights derived from 
patient-reported EuroQoL 5-dimensions measures. Sensitivity analyses were 
performed in which utility weights (varying from 0 to 1) were applied to time in 
the TOX and REL health states.
RESULTS: There was a significant difference between groups favouring 
panitumumab+BSC in quality-adjusted PFS (12.3 weeks vs 5.8 weeks, respectively, 
P<0.0001) and quality-adjusted OS (P=0.0303).
CONCLUSION: In patients with chemo-refractory wild-type KRAS mCRC, 
panitumumab+BSC significantly improved quality-adjusted survival compared with 
BSC alone.

DOI: 10.1038/bjc.2011.179
PMCID: PMC3111208
PMID: 21610704 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: JW and BS are employees of RTI Health Solutions, 
and received funding from Amgen Inc to perform the analyses reported in this 
manuscript. ZZ, BB and JW are employees and stockholders of Amgen Inc. MP acted 
as an Investigator in the trial discussed in this manuscript and has served as a 
speaker, a consultant and an advisory board member for Amgen, Lilly, Merck, 
Novartis, Roche and sanofi-aventis. All authors had full access to the data and 
had final responsibility for the decision to submit the manuscript.


736. PLoS One. 2011;6(5):e19590. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0019590. Epub 2011 May
18.

Life expectancy at birth for people with serious mental illness and other major 
disorders from a secondary mental health care case register in London.

Chang CK(1), Hayes RD, Perera G, Broadbent MT, Fernandes AC, Lee WE, Hotopf M, 
Stewart R.

Author information:
(1)King's College London (Institute of Psychiatry), London, United Kingdom. 
chin-kuo.chang@kcl.ac.uk

OBJECTIVE: Despite improving healthcare, the gap in mortality between people 
with serious mental illness (SMI) and general population persists, especially 
for younger age groups. The electronic database from a large and comprehensive 
secondary mental healthcare provider in London was utilized to assess the impact 
of SMI diagnoses on life expectancy at birth.
METHOD: People who were diagnosed with SMI (schizophrenia, schizoaffective 
disorder, bipolar disorder), substance use disorder, and depressive 
episode/disorder before the end of 2009 and under active review by the South 
London and Maudsley NHS Foundation Trust (SLAM) in southeast London during 
2007-09 comprised the sample, retrieved by the SLAM Case Register Interactive 
Search (CRIS) system. We estimated life expectancy at birth for people with SMI 
and each diagnosis, from national mortality returns between 2007-09, using a 
life table method.
RESULTS: A total of 31,719 eligible people, aged 15 years or older, with SMI 
were analyzed. Among them, 1,370 died during 2007-09. Compared to national 
figures, all disorders were associated with substantially lower life expectancy: 
8.0 to 14.6 life years lost for men and 9.8 to 17.5 life years lost for women. 
Highest reductions were found for men with schizophrenia (14.6 years lost) and 
women with schizoaffective disorders (17.5 years lost).
CONCLUSION: The impact of serious mental illness on life expectancy is marked 
and generally higher than similarly calculated impacts of well-recognised 
adverse exposures such as smoking, diabetes and obesity. Strategies to identify 
and prevent causes of premature death are urgently required.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0019590
PMCID: PMC3097201
PMID: 21611123 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


737. Acute Med. 2006;5(3):102-3.

Addison's Disease Presenting with Abdominal Pain.

Desai T(1), Richardson T.

Author information:
(1)Consultant in Diabetes and Endocrinology, Royal Bournemouth Hospital, Castle 
Lane, East Bournemouth, Dorset.

Primary Adrenal Insufficiency is due to bilateral destruction of the adrenal 
cortex and has a prevalence of approximately 40-60 per million adults.1 The 
commonest cause is autoimmune.1 Prompt treatment not only restores quality of 
life but also a normal life expectancy.2 Here we present an unusual case of 
primary adrenal insufficiency, which illustrates how such an important disease 
often provides a diagnostic conundrum.

PMID: 21611625


738. Support Care Cancer. 2011 Sep;19(9):1275-87. doi: 10.1007/s00520-011-1193-x.
 Epub 2011 May 25.

Identifying determinants of quality of life of children with cancer and 
childhood cancer survivors: a systematic review.

Klassen AF(1), Anthony SJ, Khan A, Sung L, Klaassen R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, McMaster University, HSC 3N27, 1200 Main Street 
West, Hamilton, ON, L8S 4J9, Canada. aklass@mcmaster.ca

PURPOSE: This paper describes a systematic review conducted to identify factors 
that have been investigated as explanations of variability in the quality of 
life of children with cancer and childhood cancer survivors. Our purpose was to 
build an evidence base that could be used to guide and direct future research.
METHODS: MEDLINE, CINAHL, EMBASE, PsycINFO, Cancerlit, and Sociological 
Abstracts were searched from the inception of each database to June 15, 2009 
using the following search terms: "quality of life," "health-related quality of 
life," "quality adjusted life years," "health status," "functional status," 
"well-being," or "patient-reported outcome." Sample characteristics and 
information about the relationship between a quality of life domain or total 
scale score and at least one factor (e.g., child gender or age, coping skills, 
family income) were extracted from eligible studies.
RESULTS: Nine cancer-specific and nine generic QOL questionnaires were used in 
58 publications described 239 factors (50 unique factors). The large number of 
cancer, treatment, child, and family variables considered indicates that 
extensive research activity has occurred. However, most of the variables 
identified were examined in only a few studies and most represent medical and 
treatment variables with less research attention paid to child and family 
variables.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study has compiled evidence about determinants of QOL for 
children with cancer and childhood cancer survivors from the existing 
literature. Future research can build on this evidence base to expand the range 
of factors studied as most research to date has focused on medical and treatment 
factors.

DOI: 10.1007/s00520-011-1193-x
PMID: 21611865 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


739. Med Tr Prom Ekol. 2011;(3):19-23.

[Role of "Health" National project in improvement of health parameters in 
working population].

[Article in Russian]

Bykovskaia TIu.

The author analyzed results of "Health" National project accomplishment in 
Rostov region over 2006-2009. Findings are that quality of primary medical care 
has improved, material and technical basis of municipal health care institutions 
has progressed, salary of primary health care division specialists has 
increased. Over this period, infant mortality and mortality among able-bodied 
population in the region has decreased, birth rate has increased, coefficient of 
natural loss of population has reduced, life expectancy has increased.

PMID: 21612114 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


740. BMC Blood Disord. 2011 May 26;11:2. doi: 10.1186/1471-2326-11-2.

Serum levels of leptin in Nigerian patients with sickle cell anaemia.

Iwalokun BA(1), Iwalokun SO, Hodonu SO, Aina AO, Agomo PU.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Nutrition, Nigerian Institute of Medical 
Research, Yaba, Lagos, Nigeria. bamwal@yahoo.com.

BACKGROUND: Several studies have shown that the pathophysiology of homozygous 
sickle cell anaemia (SCA) results in a myriad of metabolic, nutritional, 
haematological and clinical effects that interact with other co-morbid factors 
to determine the quality of life and life expectancy of afflicted patients. 
Because of its critical roles in nutrition and metabolism, inflammation, 
haematopoiesis and cellular immunity, this study determined the plasma levels of 
leptin in steady and unsteady states of HbSS in Nigerian patients.
METHODS: A total of 51 SCA patients aged 5 - 35 years with 34 (61.8%) being 
females who were either on admission or visiting four medical centres in Lagos, 
Nigeria together with 22 non-SCD controls aged 5 -30 years comprising 12 (54.5%) 
females were enrolled after obtaining their informed consent and ethical 
approval. Patients were further stratified into steady and unsteady cases of SCA 
based on clinical presentations, while blood samples collected by venipuncture 
from each of the study participants were analyzed haematologically for full 
blood count and HbF level and microscopically for malaria, while plasma leptin 
was assayed using ELISA method. Body composition defined by weight, fat mass and 
body mass index (BMI) was determined using standard methods. Data obtained for 
cases and controls were analyzed statistically.
RESULTS: Twenty - one patients had unsteady HbSS and elicited greater and 
significant (P < 0.05) reduction in fat mass, BMI, HbF and eosinophil count but 
elevated mean total leukocyte, count, level of irreversibly sickled cells and P. 
falciparum parasitaemia (4613.7 vs. 749.6 - 1078.4 parasites/uL), pyrexia rate 
(58.3 vs. 25.8%) when compared with steady state patients or non-SCD controls. 
Compared to the control, significant decreases in plasma leptin before and after 
controlling for body fat that was worsened by crisis were observed among the SCD 
patients. Unlike the non-SCD controls, leptin correlated non-significantly (P > 
0.05) with all body composition indices measured in the patients except for fat 
mass in unsteady cases. Multivariate regression analysis identified ESR and RC 
as independent predictor of low plasma leptin concentration in the SCA patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Base on these findings, we conclude that plasma level of leptin is 
further decreased in the unsteady state of HbSS, shows poor correlation with 
adiposity and malarial infection but has inflammation and poor reticulocyte 
response as independent predictors among Nigerian patients.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2326-11-2
PMCID: PMC3125216
PMID: 21612659


741. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol. 2012 Dec;84 Suppl 1:e24-9. doi: 
10.1016/j.critrevonc.2010.09.004. Epub 2011 May 25.

Controversies in the management of localized prostate cancer: radical 
prostatectomy still the standard of care.

Budäus L(1), Huland H, Graefen M; Association of Radiotherapy and Oncology of 
the Mediterranean arEa (AROME).

Author information:
(1)Martiniclinic, Prostate Cancer Center, University Hospital Hamburg-Eppendorf, 
Martinistrasse 52, Hamburg, Germany.

The optimal treatment for clinically localized prostate cancer is an ongoing 
subject of controversy. Treatment decisions must take tumour staging, risk 
assessment, life expectancy and consideration of the major side effects of 
multiple available treatment regimens into account. Despite technical advances 
reduced the side effects of radiation therapy, the majority of patients with 
newly diagnosed organ confined prostate cancer decide to undergo radical 
prostatectomy. Refinements of radical prostatectomy surgical techniques during 
the last decade are influenced by better understanding of the anatomy of the 
small pelvis and resulted in excellent functional and oncological outcomes. 
Additionally, the surgeons experience was identified as a key determinant for 
improved surgical outcomes. Recently, retrospective studies revealed that also 
patients with locally advanced disease benefit from radical prostatectomy. 
Advantages of radical prostatectomy include a precise pathological staging that 
assesses the need for additional therapies. Moreover, PSA can easily be used as 
an accurate surrogate marker during follow-up in such patients.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.critrevonc.2010.09.004
PMID: 21612943 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


742. Mol Biol Cell. 2011 Jul 15;22(14):2480-90. doi: 10.1091/mbc.E11-03-0198.
Epub  2011 May 25.

Axonal filopodial asymmetry induced by synaptic target.

Li PP(1), Chen C, Lee CW, Madhavan R, Peng HB.

Author information:
(1)Division of Life Science, State Key Laboratory of Molecular Neuroscience, The 
Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, Clear Water Bay, Hong Kong, 
China.

During vertebrate neuromuscular junction (NMJ) assembly, motor axons and their 
muscle targets exchange short-range signals that regulate the subsequent steps 
of presynaptic and postsynaptic specialization. We report here that this 
interaction is in part mediated by axonal filopodia extended preferentially by 
cultured Xenopus spinal neurons toward their muscle targets. Immunoblotting and 
labeling experiments showed that basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) was 
expressed by muscle and associated with the cell surface, and treatment of 
cultured spinal neurons with recombinant bFGF nearly doubled the normal density 
of filopodia in neurites. This effect of bFGF was abolished by SU5402, a 
selective inhibitor of FGF-receptor 1 (FGFR1), and forced expression of 
wild-type or dominant-negative FGFR1 in neurons enhanced or suppressed the 
assembly of filopodia, respectively. Significantly, in nerve-muscle cocultures, 
knocking down bFGF in muscle decreased both the asymmetric extension of 
filopodia by axons toward muscle and the assembly of NMJs. In addition, neurons 
expressing dominant-negative FGFR1 less effectively triggered the aggregation of 
muscle acetylcholine receptors at innervation sites than did control neurons. 
These results suggest that bFGF activation of neuronal FGFR1 generates 
filopodial processes in neurons that promote nerve-muscle interaction and 
facilitate NMJ establishment.

DOI: 10.1091/mbc.E11-03-0198
PMCID: PMC3135474
PMID: 21613540 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


743. Acc Chem Res. 2011 Dec 20;44(12):1380-8. doi: 10.1021/ar200057m. Epub 2011
May  26.

Cellular dynamics of RNA modification.

Yi C(1), Pan T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, The University of Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois 60637, USA.

Five decades of research have identified more than 100 ribonucleosides that are 
post-transcriptionally modified. Many modified nucleosides are conserved 
throughout bacteria, archaea, and eukaryotes, while some are unique to each 
branch of life. However, the cellular and functional dynamics of RNA 
modification remain largely unexplored, mostly because of the lack of functional 
hypotheses and experimental methods for quantification and large-scale analysis. 
Many RNA modifications are not essential for life, which parallels the 
observation that many well-characterized protein and DNA modifications are not 
essential for life. Instead, increasing evidence indicates that RNA 
modifications can play regulatory roles in cells, especially in response to 
stress conditions. In this Account, we review some examples of RNA modification 
that are dynamically controlled in cells. We also discuss some recently 
developed methods that have enhanced the ability to study the cellular dynamics 
of RNA modification. We discuss four specific examples of RNA modification in 
detail here. We begin with 4-thio uridine (s(4)U), which can act as a cellular 
sensor of near-UV light. Then we consider queuosine (Q), which is a potential 
biomarker for malignancy. Next we examine N(6)-methyl adenine (m(6)A), which is 
the prevalent modification in eukaryotic messenger RNAs (mRNAs). Finally, we 
discuss pseudouridine (ψ), which is inducible by nutrient deprivation. We then 
consider two recent technical advances that have stimulated the study of the 
cellular dynamics in modified ribonucleosides. The first is a genome-wide method 
that combines primer extension with a microarray. It was used to study the 
N(1)-methyl adenine (m(1)A) hypomodification in human transfer RNA (tRNA). The 
second is a quantitative mass spectrometric method used to investigate dynamic 
changes in a wide range of tRNA modifications under stress conditions in yeast. 
In addition, we discuss potential mechanisms that control dynamic regulation of 
RNA modifications as well as hypotheses for discovering potential RNA 
demodification enzymes. We conclude by highlighting the need to develop new 
tools and to generate additional hypotheses for how these modifications function 
in cells. The study of the cellular dynamics of modified RNA remains a largely 
open area for new development, which underscores the rich potential for 
important advances as researchers drive this emerging field to the next level.

DOI: 10.1021/ar200057m
PMCID: PMC3179539
PMID: 21615108 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


744. Gerodontology. 2012 Jun;29(2):e1230-40. doi:
10.1111/j.1741-2358.2010.00445.x.  Epub 2011 May 25.

Is Europe prepared to meet the oral health needs of older people?

Kossioni AE(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Prosthodontics, Dental School, University of Athens, Athens, 
Greece. akossion@dent.uoa.gr

OBJECTIVE: To discuss the preparedness of the social and health care systems and 
the health workforce in Europe to manage the increasing general and oral health 
care needs of older adults.
BACKGROUND AND DISCUSSION: There are large inequalities across European 
countries and regions in the demographic, socioeconomic and health status of the 
elderly. The ageing of the population and the economic crisis put at risk the 
existing social and health care systems and are expected to further widen the 
existing inequalities. Despite the increase in funding for the general health 
care, public funding for dental care has reduced, limiting the access for the 
disadvantaged elderly. Dental care is isolated from health care policies and 
funding. At the same time there is a significant shortage of adequately trained 
personnel in the care of the elderly and a shortage of training opportunities 
particularly at a postgraduate and continuing education level.
CONCLUSION: Immediate action is needed and appropriate strategies need to be 
implemented. Oral health prevention, delivery policies and funding should be 
integrated within the general health care system. Clinical protocols and 
guidelines need to be developed on the oral care of the elderly. 
Interdisciplinary training in the care of the elderly needs to be implemented 
for all health care workers (dentists, physicians, nurses, health care aids, 
social workers) at all education levels to enhance comprehensive care.

© 2011 The Gerodontology Society and John Wiley & Sons A/S.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1741-2358.2010.00445.x
PMID: 21615467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
