with younger donors. Acceptable results could be obtained by identifying 
'preferred' recipients for rescue allocations.

© 2011 John Wiley & Sons A/S.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1478-3231.2011.02546.x
PMID: 21733096 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Trials. 2011 Jul 6;12:169. doi: 10.1186/1745-6215-12-169.

INVESTIGATE-I (INVasive Evaluation before Surgical Treatment of Incontinence 
Gives Added Therapeutic Effect?): study protocol for a mixed methods study to 
assess the feasibility of a future randomised controlled trial of the clinical 
utility of invasive urodynamic testing.

Murdoch M(1), McColl E, Howel D, Deverill M, Buckley BS, Lucas M, Chapple CR, 
Tincello DG, Armstrong N, Brennand C, Shen J, Vale L, Hilton P.

Author information:
(1)Directorate of Women's Services, Royal Victoria Infirmary, Newcastle upon 
Tyne, UK.

BACKGROUND: Urinary incontinence is an important health problem to the 
individual sufferer and to health services. Stress and stress predominant mixed 
urinary incontinence are increasingly managed by surgery due to advances in 
surgical techniques. Despite the lack of evidence for its clinical utility, most 
clinicians undertake invasive urodynamic testing (IUT) to confirm a functional 
diagnosis of urodynamic stress incontinence before offering surgery for this 
condition. IUT is expensive, embarrassing and uncomfortable for women and 
carries a small risk. Recent systematic reviews have confirmed the lack of high 
quality evidence of effectiveness.The aim of this pilot study is to test the 
feasibility of a future definitive randomised control trial that would address 
whether IUT alters treatment decisions and treatment outcome in these women and 
would test its clinical and cost effectiveness.
METHODS/DESIGN: This is a mixed methods pragmatic multicentre feasibility pilot 
study with four components:-(a) A multicentre, external pilot randomised trial 
comparing basic clinical assessment with non-invasive tests and IUT. The outcome 
measures are rates of recruitment, randomisation and data completion. Data will 
be used to estimate sample size necessary for the definitive trial.(b) 
Qualitative interviews of a purposively sampled sub-set of women eligible for 
the pilot trial will explore willingness to participate, be randomised and their 
overall trial experience.(c) A national survey of clinicians to determine their 
views of IUT in this context, the main outcome being their willingness to 
randomise patients into the definitive trial.(d) Qualitative interviews of a 
purposively sampled group of these clinicians will explore whether and how they 
use IUT to inform their decisions.
DISCUSSION: The pilot trial will provide evidence of feasibility and 
acceptability and therefore inform the decision whether to proceed to the 
definitive trial. Results will inform the design and conduct of the definitive 
trial and ensure its effectiveness in achieving its research aim.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN71327395 assigned 7th 
June 2010.

DOI: 10.1186/1745-6215-12-169
PMCID: PMC3152523
PMID: 21733166 [Indexed for MEDLINE]61. BMJ Clin Evid. 2009 May 14;2009:1202.

Multiple sclerosis.

Nicholas R(1), Chataway J.

Author information:
(1)Imperial Healthcare Trust, London, UK.

INTRODUCTION: Multiple sclerosis is the most common cause of neurological 
disability in young adults. Irreversible disability can occur, but life 
expectancy is generally not affected.
METHODS AND OUTCOMES: We conducted a systematic review and aimed to answer the 
following clinical questions: What are the effects of interventions aimed at 
reducing relapse rates and disability in people with multiple sclerosis? What 
are the effects of interventions to improve symptoms during acute relapse? What 
are the effects of treatments for fatigue, spasticity, and multidisciplinary 
care on disability in people with multiple sclerosis? We searched: Medline, 
Embase, The Cochrane Library, and other important databases up to June 2008 
(Clinical Evidence reviews are updated periodically, please check our website 
for the most up-to-date version of this review). We included harms alerts from 
relevant organisations such as the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the 
UK Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA).
RESULTS: We found 68 systematic reviews, RCTs, and observational studies that 
met our inclusion criteria. We performed a GRADE evaluation of the quality of 
evidence for interventions.
CONCLUSIONS: In this systematic review, we present information relating to the 
effectiveness and safety of the following key interventions: amantadine, 
azathioprine, behaviour modification, botulinum toxin, corticosteroids, 
exercise, gabapentin, inpatient or outpatient rehabilitation, interferon beta, 
intrathecal baclofen, intravenous immunoglobulin, methotrexate, mitoxantrone, 
modafinil, natalizumab, oral drug treatments, parenteral glatiramer acetate, 
physiotherapy, and plasma exchange.

PMCID: PMC2907805
PMID: 21733201 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. Psychol Med. 2012 Jan;42(1):195-204. doi: 10.1017/S0033291711000845. Epub
2011  Jun 1.

Functional improvement and correlations with symptomatic improvement in adults 
with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder receiving long-acting 
methylphenidate.

Buitelaar JK(1), Casas M, Philipsen A, Kooij JJ, Ramos-Quiroga JA, Dejonckheere 
J, van Oene JC, Schäuble B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cognitive Neuroscience, University Medical Centre, St Radboud 
and Karakter Child and Adolescent Psychiatry University Centre, Nijmegen, The 
Netherlands. j.buitelaar@psy.umcn.nl

BACKGROUND: Data on the relationship between core symptoms and daily functioning 
in adults with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) are limited. 
Daily functioning was assessed as part of an open-label extension, and 
associations with symptom scores were evaluated.
METHOD: After a 5-week double-blind study with adults with ADHD receiving 
osmotic-controlled release oral delivery system (OROS) methylphenidate (MPH) 18, 
36 or 72 mg/day, or placebo, participants were eligible for a 7-week open-label 
extension in which all patients received OROS MPH. Data for the Conners' Adult 
ADHD Rating Scale - Observer: Screening Version (CAARS-O:SV) (primary endpoint) 
have been presented previously. Secondary endpoints included the observer 
self-reported short version of the CAARS (CAARS-S:S) and the Clinical Global 
Impressions - Severity Scale (CGI-S). Daily functioning and quality of life were 
assessed using the Sheehan Disability Scale (SDS) and the Quality of Life 
Enjoyment and Satisfaction Questionnaire (Q-LES-Q) respectively. In post-hoc 
analyses, changes in CAARS-O:SV were evaluated in subgroups. Relationships 
between symptom and functional outcomes were evaluated in a multivariate 
regression analysis.
RESULTS: A total of 370 patients entered the open-label extension. Significant 
improvements from baseline in CAARS-O:SV were similar regardless of sex, ADHD 
subtype, prior treatment or psychiatric co-morbidity. Significant improvements 
from double-blind baseline were also seen for the CAARS-S:S, CGI-S, SDS and 
Q-LES-Q. Improvements in the CAARS-O:SV Hyperactivity/Impulsivity subscale were 
associated with improvements in SDS total and subscale scores, and in the 
Q-LES-Q score at open-label endpoint. Improvements in CAARS-O:SV Inattention 
subscale and CGI-S scores were not significantly associated with functional 
changes.
CONCLUSIONS: Improvements in ADHD symptoms relating to hyperactivity and 
impulsivity in adults receiving OROS MPH are associated with improvements in 
daily functioning and quality of life.

DOI: 10.1017/S0033291711000845
PMCID: PMC3226157
PMID: 21733214 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2011 Sep;96(9):2762-70. doi: 10.1210/jc.2011-0575.
Epub  2011 Jul 6.

The economics of improving medication adherence in osteoporosis: validation and 
application of a simulation model.

Patrick AR(1), Schousboe JT, Losina E, Solomon DH.

Author information:
(1)Brigham and Women's Hospital Division of Pharmacoepidemiology, 1620 Tremont 
Street, Suite 3030, Boston, Massachusetts 02120. arpatrick@partners.org

CONTEXT: Adherence to osteoporosis treatment is low. Although new therapies and 
behavioral interventions may improve medication adherence, questions are likely 
to arise regarding their cost-effectiveness.
OBJECTIVE: Our objectives were to develop and validate a model to simulate the 
clinical outcomes and costs arising from various osteoporosis medication 
adherence patterns among women initiating bisphosphonate treatment and to 
estimate the cost-effectiveness of a hypothetical intervention to improve 
medication adherence.
DESIGN: We constructed a computer simulation using estimates of fracture rates, 
bisphosphonate treatment effects, costs, and utilities for health states drawn 
from the published literature. Probabilities of transitioning on and off 
treatment were estimated from administrative claims data.
SETTING AND PATIENTS: Patients were women initiating bisphosphonate therapy from 
the general community.
INTERVENTION: We evaluated a hypothetical behavioral intervention to improve 
medication adherence.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Changes in 10-yr fracture rates and incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios were evaluated.
RESULTS: A hypothetical intervention with a one-time cost of $250 and reducing 
bisphosphonate discontinuation by 30% had an incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio (ICER) of $29,571 per quality-adjusted life year in 65-yr-old women 
initiating bisphosphonates. Although the ICER depended on patient age, 
intervention effectiveness, and intervention cost, the ICERs were less than 
$50,000 per quality-adjusted life year for the majority of intervention cost and 
effectiveness scenarios evaluated. Results were sensitive to bisphosphonate cost 
and effectiveness and assumptions about the rate at which intervention and 
treatment effects decline over time.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggests that behavioral interventions to improve 
osteoporosis medication adherence will likely have favorable ICERs if their 
efficacy can be sustained.

DOI: 10.1210/jc.2011-0575
PMCID: PMC3167669
PMID: 21733991 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. J Virol. 2011 Sep;85(18):9495-505. doi: 10.1128/JVI.02620-10. Epub 2011 Jul
6.

Ribosomal protein S6 interacts with the latency-associated nuclear antigen of 
Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus.

Chen W(1), Dittmer DP.

Author information:
(1)University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, CB 7290, 715 Mary Ellen Jones 
Bldg., Chapel Hill, NC 27599-7290, USA.

The latency-associated nuclear antigen (LANA) is central to the maintenance of 
Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV) and to the survival of 
KSHV-carrying tumor cells. In an effort to identify interaction partners of 
LANA, we purified authentic high-molecular-weight complexes of LANA by 
conventional chromatography followed by immunoprecipitation from the BC-3 cell 
line. This is the first analysis of LANA-interacting partners that is not based 
on forced ectopic expression of LANA. Subsequent tandem mass spectrometry 
(MS/MS) analysis identified many of the known LANA-interacting proteins. We 
confirmed LANA's interactions with histones. Three classes of proteins survived 
our stringent four-step purification procedure (size, heparin, anion, and 
immunoaffinity chromatography): two heat shock proteins (Hsp70 and Hsp96 
precursor), signal recognition particle 72 (SRP72), and 10 different ribosomal 
proteins. These proteins are likely involved in structural interactions within 
LANA high-molecular-weight complexes. Here, we show that ribosomal protein S6 
(RPS6) interacts with LANA. This interaction is mediated by the N-terminal 
domain of LANA and does not require DNA or RNA. Depletion of RPS6 from primary 
effusion lymphoma (PEL) cells dramatically decreases the half-life of 
full-length LANA. The fact that RPS6 has a well-established nuclear function 
beyond its role in ribosome assembly suggests that RPS6 (and by extension other 
ribosomal proteins) contributes to the extraordinary stability of LANA.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.02620-10
PMCID: PMC3165752
PMID: 21734034 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. Blood. 2011 Sep 1;118(9):2389-94. doi: 10.1182/blood-2011-02-337261. Epub
2011  Jul 6.

Applicability of a "Pick a Winner" trial design to acute myeloid leukemia.

Hills RK(1), Burnett AK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Haematology, Cardiff University School of Medicine, Cardiff, 
UK. HillsRK@cf.ac.uk

Randomized clinical trials remain the gold standard to establish efficacy and 
safety of new treatments. In acute myeloid leukemia, large trials have been 
associated with gradual improvement in outcome over 2 decades in younger 
patients without major differences emerging between treatments. By contrast, in 
older patients, improvement has been minimal, which justifies a new approach to 
identifying effective treatments. Given the urgent unmet need, and with the 
emergence of several novel agents or combinations that are likely to be 
expensive, large benefits are probably required to change clinical practice. To 
address this issue, we have evolved a "Pick a Winner" randomized progressive 
design with a rolling incorporation of novel treatments (drug X), which has been 
tested in older patients with acute myeloid leukemia. The rationale, operational 
characteristics, and initial experience of such an approach in the context of 
the United Kingdom National Cancer Research Institute AML16 trial are presented.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2011-02-337261
PMID: 21734235 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


66. Dig Dis. 2011;29(2):202-10. doi: 10.1159/000323886. Epub 2011 Jul 5.

ASH and NASH.

Scaglioni F(1), Ciccia S, Marino M, Bedogni G, Bellentani S.

Author information:
(1)Liver Center, Gastroenterologia, Distretto di Carpi, Azienda USL di Modena, 
Carpi, Italy.

Non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) and alcoholic steatohepatitis (ASH) have a 
similar pathogenesis and histopathology but a different etiology and 
epidemiology. NASH and ASH are advanced stages of non-alcoholic fatty liver 
disease (NAFLD) and alcoholic fatty liver disease (AFLD). NAFLD is characterized 
by excessive fat accumulation in the liver (steatosis), without any other 
evident causes of chronic liver diseases (viral, autoimmune, genetic, etc.), and 
with an alcohol consumption ≤20-30 g/day. On the contrary, AFLD is defined as 
the presence of steatosis and alcohol consumption >20-30 g/day. The most common 
phenotypic manifestations of primary NAFLD/NASH are overweight/obesity, visceral 
adiposity, type 2 diabetes, hypertriglyceridemia and hypertension. The 
prevalence of NAFLD in the general population in Western countries is estimated 
to be 25-30%. The prevalence and incidence of NASH and ASH are not known because 
of the impossibility of performing liver biopsy in the general population. Up to 
90% of alcoholics have fatty liver, and 5-15% of these subjects will develop 
cirrhosis over 20 years. The risk of cirrhosis increases to 30-40% in those who 
continue to drink alcohol. About 10-35% of alcoholics exhibit changes on liver 
biopsy consistent with alcoholic hepatitis. Natural histories of NASH and ASH 
are not completely defined, even if patients with NASH have a reduced life 
expectancy due to liver-related death and cardiovascular diseases. The best 
treatment of AFLD/ASH is to stop drinking, and the most effective first-line 
therapeutic option for NAFLD/NASH is non-pharmacologic lifestyle interventions 
through a multidisciplinary approach including weight loss, dietary changes, 
physical exercise, and cognitive-behavior therapy.

Copyright © 2011 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000323886
PMID: 21734385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. Pancreatology. 2011;11(2):268-76. doi: 10.1159/000328785. Epub 2011 Jul 5.

Pancreatogenic diabetes after pancreatic resection.

Maeda H(1), Hanazaki K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Kochi University, Nankoku City, Japan.

The loss of pancreatic parenchyma resulting from pancreatic resection causes an 
extreme disruption of glucose homeostasis known as pancreatogenic diabetes. This 
form of glucose intolerance is different from the other forms of diabetes 
mellitus in that affected individuals suffer frequent episodes of iatrogenic 
hypoglycemia. The development of sophisticated surgical procedures, improved 
postoperative care, and the capacity for early diagnosis of disease has 
prolonged life expectancy after pancreatic resection. For this reason, 
pancreatogenic diabetes is now attracting attention as the primary factor 
influencing quality of life in patients who have undergone this procedure. The 
incidence of new-onset diabetes mellitus after pancreatic resection increases as 
the follow-up period after surgery becomes longer and is related to the 
progression of underlying disease, the type of surgery, and the extent of 
resection. The pathophysiology of pancreatogenic diabetes is related to 
pancreatic hormone deficiency and the altered responses of the liver and 
peripheral organs to lower than normal hormone levels. Hyperglycemia occurs when 
the amount of insulin produced or administered is insufficient because of 
unsuppressed hepatic glucose production secondary to a deficiency in pancreatic 
polypeptide. In contrast, patients lapse into hypoglycemia when insulin is 
barely excessive because of enhanced peripheral insulin sensitivity and glucagon 
deficiency. Nutritional state, pancreatic exocrine function and intestinal 
function also affect glycemic control. Insulin replacement is considered to be 
the main treatment option for insulin dependent pancreatogenic diabetes. 
Pancreatic polypeptide replacement and islet autotransplantation have potential 
as new approaches to treating patients with pancreatogenic diabetes after 
pancreatic resection. and IAP.

Copyright © 2011 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000328785
PMID: 21734430 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. Neurosurgery. 2011 Dec;69(6):1255-9; discussion 1259-60. doi: 
10.1227/NEU.0b013e31822ba315.

Posterior fossa exploration for trigeminal neuralgia patients older than 70 
years of age.

Pollock BE(1), Stien KJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurological Surgery, Mayo Clinic College of Medicine, 
Rochester, Minnesota 55905, USA. pollock.bruce@mayo.edu

BACKGROUND: Patients with medically unresponsive trigeminal neuralgia (TN) who 
are >70 years of age often undergo operations that typically provide pain relief 
for <5 years despite having a life expectancy that can exceed 15 years.
OBJECTIVE: To review the safety and efficacy of posterior fossa exploration 
(PFE) for TN patients > 70 years of age.
METHODS: From 1999 to 2009, 67 TN patients >70 years of age (median, 74 years) 
underwent a PFE. Thirty-seven patients (55%) had failed ≥ 1 prior surgeries 
(median, 2). Fifty-nine patients (88%) had a microvascular decompression, and 8 
patients (12%) underwent a partial sensory rhizotomy. Follow-up (median, 40 
months) was censored at the time of last contact (n = 51), additional surgery (n 
= 12), or death (n = 4).
RESULTS: Complete pain relief (no pain, no medications) was 87% at 1 year and 
78% at 5 years. Facial pain outcomes did not correlate with patient age, sex, 
prior surgery, or pain duration. Postoperative complications were noted in 10 
patients (15%) and included ataxia (10%), hearing loss (5%), trigeminal 
dysesthesias (5%), facial weakness (3%), aseptic meningitis (2%), and pulmonary 
embolus (2%). Factors associated with postoperative complications were prior PFE 
(P = .01) and neurovascular compression from a dolicoectatic basilar artery (P = 
.03).
CONCLUSION: Posterior fossa exploration is safe and effective for 
physiologically healthy TN patients >70 years of age. It should be deferred in 
older patients with TN secondary to a dolicoectatic basilar artery and patients 
who have persistent/recurrent pain after a previous PFE unless simpler 
procedures prove ineffective at controlling their facial pain.

DOI: 10.1227/NEU.0b013e31822ba315
PMID: 21734615 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Bull World Health Organ. 2011 Jul 1;89(7):478-86. doi: 10.2471/BLT.10.083766.
 Epub 2011 Apr 8.

Projections of global health outcomes from 2005 to 2060 using the International 
Futures integrated forecasting model.

Hughes BB(1), Kuhn R, Peterson CM, Rothman DS, Solórzano JR, Mathers CD, Dickson 
JR.

Author information:
(1)Josef Korbel School of International Studies, University of Denver, 2201 S 
Gaylord Street, Denver, CO 80208, United States of America.

OBJECTIVE: To develop an integrated health forecasting model as part of the 
International Futures (IFs) modelling system.
METHODS: The IFs model begins with the historical relationships between economic 
and social development and cause-specific mortality used by the Global Burden of 
Disease project but builds forecasts from endogenous projections of these 
drivers by incorporating forward linkages from health outcomes back to inputs 
like population and economic growth. The hybrid IFs system adds alternative 
structural formulations for causes not well served by regression models and 
accounts for changes in proximate health risk factors. Forecasts are made to 
2100 but findings are reported to 2060.
FINDINGS: The base model projects that deaths from communicable diseases (CDs) 
will decline by 50%, whereas deaths from both non-communicable diseases (NCDs) 
and injuries will more than double. Considerable cross-national convergence in 
life expectancy will occur. Climate-induced fluctuations in agricultural yield 
will cause little excess childhood mortality from CDs, although other 
climate-health pathways were not explored. An optimistic scenario will produce 
39 million fewer deaths in 2060 than a pessimistic one. Our forward linkage 
model suggests that an optimistic scenario would result in a 20% per cent 
increase in gross domestic product (GDP) per capita, despite one billion 
additional people. Southern Asia would experience the greatest relative 
mortality reduction and the largest resulting benefit in per capita GDP.
CONCLUSION: Long-term, integrated health forecasting helps us understand the 
links between health and other markers of human progress and offers powerful 
insight into key points of leverage for future improvements.

OBJECTIF: Développer un modèle intégré de prévision sanitaire s’intégrant dans 
le système de modélisation International Futures (IFs).
MÉTHODES: Le modèle IFs commence avec les relations historiques entre le 
développement économique et social et la mortalité par cause utilisées par le 
projet Charge globale de la morbidité, mais il élabore des prévisions à partir 
de projections endogènes de ces agents en réintégrant des données, comme la 
population et la croissance économique, aux corrélations aval des résultats 
sanitaires. Le système hybride IFs ajoute des formulations structurelles 
alternatives pour des causes mal prises en compte par les modèles de régression 
et rend compte de modifications dans des facteurs proches de risque sanitaire. 
Les prévisions sont faites pour 2100 mais les résultats sont exprimés pour 2060.
RÉSULTATS: Le modèle de base prévoit que les morts par maladies contagieuses 
(MC) baisseront de 50%, tandis que les morts par maladies non contagieuses (MNC) 
et par blessures feront plus que doubler. Une forte convergence dans l'espérance 
de vie se produira entre les différents pays. Les fluctuations de la production 
agricole dues au climat entraîneront un léger excès de mortalité infantile par 
MC, bien que d'autres approches climat-santé n'aient pas été explorées. Un 
scénario optimiste produira 39 millions de morts de moins en 2060 qu'un scénario 
pessimiste. Notre modèle de corrélation en aval suggère qu'un scénario optimiste 
entraînerait une augmentation du produit intérieur brut (PIB) par tête de 20%, 
malgré le milliard de personnes supplémentaires. L'Asie du Sud jouirait de la 
plus forte réduction relative de mortalité et de la plus importante croissance 
du PIB par tête qui en résultera.
CONCLUSION: La prévision sanitaire intégrée à long terme nous aide à comprendre 
les liens entre la santé et les autres marqueurs de progrès humain et met en 
évidence des points d'action clés pour des améliorations futures.

OBJETIVO: Desarrollar un modelo de predicción de salud integrado como parte del 
sistema de modelos International Futures (IF).
MÉTODOS: El modelo IF comienza con las relaciones históricas entre desarrollo 
económico y social y mortalidad por causas específicas, utilizado por el 
proyecto Global Burden of Disease, pero genera predicciones a partir de 
proyecciones endógenas de estos causantes, incorporando asociaciones 
prospectivas de los resultados de salud que se remontan a aportaciones como la 
población y el crecimiento económico. El sistema híbrido IF añade formulaciones 
estructurales alternativas para causas no muy bien tratadas en modelos de 
regresión y tiene en cuenta cambios en factores de riesgo próximos para la 
salud. Se hacen pronósticos hasta el 2100, pero se informa de los resultados 
hasta el 2060.
RESULTADOS: El modelo de base proyecta que las muertes por enfermedades 
transmisibles (ET) disminuirán en un 50%, mientras que las muertes, tanto por 
enfermedades no transmisibles (ENT) como por lesiones, superarán el doble de lo 
actual. Se dará una convergencia transnacional apreciable en la esperanza de 
vida. Las fluctuaciones causadas por el clima en el rendimiento agrícola 
causarán poco aumento de la mortalidad infantil causada por las ET, aunque no se 
investigaron otros patrones clima-salud. Una predicción optimista dará 
39 millones de muertes menos en el 2060 que una predicción pesimista. Nuestro 
modelo de asociación prospectiva sugiere que una predicción optimista resultará 
en un aumento del 20% en el producto interior bruto (PIB) per cápita, a pesar de 
los mil millones más de personas. El Sur de Asia experimentará la mayor 
reducción de la mortalidad relativa y el mayor beneficio resultante en el PIB 
per cápita.
CONCLUSIÓN: La predicción de salud a largo plazo e integrada nos ayuda a 
entender las relaciones entre la salud y otros marcadores del progreso humano y 
ofrece una ilustrativa perspectiva en puntos clave de influencia para mejoras 
futuras.

ЦЕЛЬ: Разработать интегрированную модель прогнозирования здоровья в рамках 
системы моделирования «International Futures» (IFs).
МЕТОДЫ: Модель IFs исходит из исторических взаимосвязей между экономическим и 
социальным развитием, с одной стороны, и показателями смертности, с разбивкой по 
причинам смерти, использованными в проекте «Глобальное бремя болезней», с 
другой. Однако ее прогнозы построены на эндогенных проекциях этих драйверов 
путем ретроспективного включения проспективных связей, обусловленных 
результатами в отношении здоровья, в исходные факторы воздействия, такие как 
численность населения и экономический рост. Гибридная система IFs добавляет к 
этому альтернативные структурные формулировки причин, недостаточно учтенных в 
моделях регрессии, и принимает в расчет изменения непосредственно действующих 
факторов риска для здоровья. Прогнозы разработаны на период до 2010 года, однако 
результаты проецируются на период до 2060 года.
РЕЗУЛЬТАТЫ: Согласно базовой модели прогноза, смертность от инфекционных 
болезней (ИБ) сократится на 50%, а смертность от неинфекционных болезней (НБ) и 
травм возрастет вдвое. Произойдет значительное кросс-национальное сближение 
показателей ожидаемой продолжительности жизни при рождении. Флуктуации урожаев 
сельскохозяйственных культур, обусловленные климатом, приведут к некоторой 
избыточной детской смертности от ИБ; в то же время, другие варианты модели 
«климат–здоровье» не рассматривались. Согласно оптимистическому сценарию, в 2060 
году произойдет на 39 млн случаев смерти меньше, чем согласно пессимистическому 
сценарию. Наша модель проспективной связи позволяет сделать вывод, что 
оптимистический сценарий приведет к приросту валового внутреннего продукта (ВВП) 
на душу населения на 20%, несмотря на то, что численность населения увеличится 
на 1 млрд чел. Самое большое относительное снижение смертности и наибольший 
результирующий прирост ВВП произойдут в регионе Южной Азии.
ВЫВОД: Долгосрочное, интегрированное прогнозирование здоровья помогает нам 
понять связь между здоровьем и другими индикаторами человеческого прогресса и 
служит мощным средством осмысления важнейших инструментов для достижения 
усовершенствований в будущем.

目的: 旨在开发综合健康预测模型作为国际期货建模系统的一部分。
方法: 
国际期货模型是从经济和社会发展以及“全球疾病负担”项目运用的死因别死亡率之间的历史关系出发，但建立预报是通过纳入健康结果与人口和经济增长等前向关联的驱动因素的内源性预测。由于通过回归模型未能很好解释死因，混合国际期货系统增加了替代结构模型进行死因分析，并且解释了相似健康危险因素的变化。预报已经做到了2100年，但是这次仅报告了截至2060年的结果。
结果: 
基本模型预测因传染性疾病（CDs）导致的死亡数将减少50%，而因非传染性疾病（NCDs）和伤害而导致的死亡将增加超过一倍。预期寿命将会出现可观的跨国趋同。气候引起的农业产量波动将很少导致过多的儿童因传染性疾病死亡，而其他气候-健康途径则没有探讨。乐观设想2060年的死亡人数将比悲观设想的人数少3900万。我们的前向关联模型表明，尽管人口将增加十亿，乐观设想仍会引起人均国内生产总值（GDP）20%的增加。同时南亚相对死亡率将有最大的降幅以及人均国内生产总值最大收益。
结论: 长期的综合健康预报帮助我们理解健康与人类进步其他标志之间的联系，并为确定今后改善的重点提供强有力的洞察能力。

الغرض: إعداد نموذج تنبؤ صحي متكامل كجزء من نظام الصياغة المستقبلي الدولي.
الطريقة: يبدأ نظام الصياغة المستقبلي الدولي بعلاقة تاريخية بين التنمية 
الاقتصادية والاجتماعية ومعدل الوفيات الخاص بسبب معين وهو مستخدم في مشروع العبء 
العالمي للأمراض، ولكنه يبني تنبؤاته على الإسقاطات الداخلية المنشأ لهذه الدوافع 
عن طريق دمج الارتباطات المستقبلية للنتائج الصحية بالمدخلات السابقة مثل السكان 
والنمو الاقتصادي. ويضيف هجين نظام الصياغة المستقبلي الدولي صياغةً هيكلية بديلة 
لأسباب لا تحظى بتمثيل جيد عن طريق نماذج التحوّف بينما تسهم في تغيرات مباشرة في 
عوامل الاختطار الصحي. وقد أجريت إسقاطات إلى عام 2100 ولكن سجلت النتائج حتى عام 
2060.
النتائج: تشير إسقاطات النموذج القاعدي إلى تراجع الوفيات الناجمة عن الأمراض 
السارية بمقدار 50%، في حين ستتضاعف الوفيات الناجمة عن الأمراض غير السارية 
والإصابات. كما سيحدث تقارب على نطاق الأمم في مأمول الحياة. وسيؤدي التقلّب في 
المحاصيل الزراعية بسبب المناخ إلى زيادة طفيفة في وفيات الأمراض نتيجة للأمراض 
السارية، مع أن المسارات المناخية-الصحية الأخرى لم يتم التعرف عليها. ويشير 
السيناريو المتفائل إلى انخفاض قدره 39 مليون وفاة في عام 2060 مقارنة 
بالسيناريوهات المتشائمة. وتشير نماذج الارتباطات المستقبلية إلى أن السيناريو 
المتفائل سيفضي إلى 20% زيادة في نصيب الفرد من إجمالي الناتج المحلي، بالرغم من 
زيادة السكان بمقدار بليون فرد. وستشهد شرق أسيا أكثر انخفاضاً نسبياً في معدل 
الوفيات وأكثر المزايا لنصيب الفرد من إجمالي الناتج المحلي.
الاستنتاج: يساعد التنبؤ المتكامل لأمد طويل في فهم الارتباطات بين الصحة ومؤشرات 
التقدم البشري الأخرى ويقدم فهماً عميقاً للنقاط الرئيسية المؤثرة في التحسّنات 
المستقبلية.

DOI: 10.2471/BLT.10.083766
PMCID: PMC3127264
PMID: 21734761 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy [Internet].

Tipton KN(1), Sullivan N(1), Bruening W(1), Inamdar R(1), Launders J(1), Uhl 
S(1), Schoelles KM(1).

Rockville (MD): Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (US); 2011 May. 
Report No.: 10(11)-EHC058-EF.
AHRQ Comparative Effectiveness Technical Briefs.

Author information:
(1)ECRI Institute Evidence-based Practice Center

OBJECTIVES: Conduct a systematic literature scan for published data for the 
treatment of stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) and provide a broad 
overview of the current state of SBRT for solid malignant tumors.
DATA SOURCES: Ovid, MEDLINE, EMBASE, the Cochrane Database, and the Health 
Technology Assessment Database from January 2000 to December 2010. We also 
searched www.ClinicalTrials.gov, www.fda.gov, and gray literature within 
Windhover, Current HC News, Gray Sheet, The Wall Street Journal, Clinica, and 
the Google search engine.
REVIEW METHODS: Clinical studies of any design, published in English that 
delivered SBRT in 10 or fewer fractions, and enrolled at least three patients 
with solid malignant tumors in the body (excluding head and spine) were 
included. Two reviewers abstracted information on study design, patients, and 
reported outcomes. We synthesized the following variables if reported: cancer 
type, patient inclusion criteria, type of radiation, instrumentation, and 
algorithms used, study design and size, comparators, concurrent and/or prior 
treatments, length of followup, outcomes measured, and adverse events.
RESULTS: Our searches identified a total of 124 relevant prospective and 
retrospective single group studies. The bulk of the studies examined SBRT for 
tumors of the lung/thorax (k = 68). We found 27 studies of tumors located in the 
pancreas, liver, colon, and fewer than 10 studies each for sites within uterus, 
pelvis, sacrum, kidney, prostate, and thyroid. There were 10 studies that 
included multiple treatment sites within the study. Study designs for SBRT 
include prospective and retrospective single group studies. Study size varied 
from 3 (minimum acceptable for inclusion in this review) to 398 patients. None 
of the published trials were comparative studies. Reported patient inclusion 
criteria include inoperable tumors, patients refusing surgery, biopsy proven 
disease, life expectancy, no prior radiation therapy (RT) or prior RT received 
in a particular time frame prior to SBRT, and required performance levels on the 
Karnofsky or World Health Organization/Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group 
scales. Several studies reported the use of modified linacs(k = 47), CyberKnife 
(k = 39), Novalis Shaped Beam or Clinac (k = 16), Body GammaKnife (k=1), 
Tomotherapy Hi-Art(k = 2), FOCAL unit(k = 1), and Synergy systems(k = 6). 
Typically, inverse treatment planning algorithms; pencil beam algorithms for 
dose calculation; and tissue maximum ratio calculation algorithms were reported. 
Prior treatments reported include surgery, radiation therapy (e.g., 
intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT), brachytherapy), pharmaceuticals 
(e.g., tamoxifen), and/or chemotherapy. We calculated an overall mean and median 
for the length of followup for each cancer type. The shortest mean and median 
followup was within the multiple site category (12.9 and 8.2 months [1–95 
months] respectively). Studies of the tumors involving the pelvis, sacrum, and 
uterus had the longest mean/median followup (31 and 33 months [range 2–77 
months]). The reported outcomes include tumor control/response, toxicity, and 
overall survival. Most studies used four criteria to measure tumor control/tumor 
response: complete response, partial response, stable disease, and progression 
of disease. The most frequently reported adverse events include pain, fatigue, 
nausea, bleeding, and diarrhea.
CONCLUSIONS: In brief, SBRT appears to be widely disseminated for treatment of a 
variety of cancer types, although a majority of studies have only focused on 
treatment of thoracic tumors. None of the currently available studies include 
comparison groups. Comparative studies are needed to provide evidence that the 
theoretical advantages of SBRT over other radiotherapies actually occur in the 
clinical setting. Currently, there is only one small ongoing trial doing so. 
Consequently, a full systematic review of the current literature cannot answer 
questions on the effectiveness and safety of SBRT compared to other radiotherapy 
interventions.

PMID: 21735562


71. Fatty Acid Hydroxylase-Associated Neurodegeneration.

Gregory A(1), Venkateswaran S(2), Hayflick SJ(3).

In: Adam MP, Feldman J, Mirzaa GM, Pagon RA, Wallace SE, Bean LJH, Gripp KW, 
Amemiya A, editors. GeneReviews(®) [Internet]. Seattle (WA): University of 
Washington, Seattle; 1993–2023.
2011 Jun 28 [updated 2018 Sep 27].

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular and Medical Genetics, Oregon Health & Science 
University, Portland, Oregon
(2)Department of Neurology, Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario, Ottawa, 
Ontario, Canada
(3)Departments of Molecular and Medical Genetics, Pediatrics, and Neurology, 
Oregon Health & Science University, Portland, Oregon

CLINICAL CHARACTERISTICS: Fatty acid hydroxylase-associated neurodegeneration 
(FAHN) is characterized early in the disease course by central nervous system 
involvement including corticospinal tract involvement (spasticity), mixed 
movement disorder (ataxia/dystonia), and eye findings (optic atrophy, oculomotor 
abnormalities), and later in the disease course by progressive intellectual 
impairment and seizures. With disease progression, dystonia and spasticity 
compromise the ability to ambulate, leading to wheelchair dependence. Life 
expectancy is variable. FAHN is considered to be a subtype of neurodegeneration 
with brain iron accumulation (NBIA).
DIAGNOSIS/TESTING: The diagnosis of FAHN is established in a proband with 
suggestive findings and typically by identification of biallelic FA2H pathogenic 
variants on molecular genetic testing; however, on occasion uniparental disomy 
(UDP) is causative.
MANAGEMENT: Treatment of manifestations: Symptomatic treatment focuses primarily 
on the dystonia, which can be debilitating. Therapies used with varying success 
include the oral medications baclofen, tizanidine, dantrolene, and 
anticholinergics; injection of botulinum toxin targeting abnormal co-contraction 
of selected muscle groups; and ablative pallidotomy or thalamotomy. Attention 
should be given to nutritional status and feeding. Independence should be 
encouraged when possible through use of adaptive aids (e.g., walker or 
wheelchair for gait abnormalities, augmentative communication devices) and 
appropriate community resources (e.g., financial services, programs for the 
visually impaired, special education). Surveillance: Regular assessment of 
nutritional status and swallowing, vision, mobility and environmental 
adaptations, speech, and communication needs.
GENETIC COUNSELING: Genetic counseling for fatty acid hydroxylase-associated 
neurodegeneration (FAHN) depends on the causative genetic mechanism: FAHN caused 
by transmission of one pathogenic variant from each parent is inherited in an 
autosomal recessive manner; FAHN caused by transmission of two pathogenic 
variants from one parent (as the result of uniparental disomy [UPD] for 
chromosome 16) is a de novo event and is unlikely to recur. Autosomal recessive 
inheritance: At conception, each sib of an affected individual has a 25% chance 
of being affected, a 50% chance of being an asymptomatic carrier, and a 25% 
chance of being unaffected and not a carrier. If the pathogenic variants have 
been identified in an affected family member, carrier testing for at-risk 
relatives, prenatal testing for a pregnancy at increased risk, and 
preimplantation genetic testing are possible.

Copyright © 1993-2023, University of Washington, Seattle. GeneReviews is a 
registered trademark of the University of Washington, Seattle. All rights 
reserved.

PMID: 21735565


72. Otolaryngol Pol. 2011 Mar-Apr;65(2):122-7. doi:
10.1016/s0030-6657(11)70641-2.

[A case of maxillary sinus carcinoma of a 24-year-old man, holistic aspects of 
care].

[Article in Polish]

Kicińiski K(1), Skorek A, Stankiewicz C, Kobierska-Gulida G.

Author information:
(1)Katedra i Klinika Chorób Uszu, Nosa, Gardła i Krtani GUMed, Gdańsk. 
KRZYS.KICINSKI@wp.pl

The aim of this study is to report a carcinoma affecting the maxillary sinus of 
a 24-years old man. Malignant tumors of the nasal cavity and paranasal sinuses 
are rare and a very heterogeneous group of tumors. The most common is a squamous 
cell carcinoma. Sinonasal malignances usually present as a difficult diagnostic 
and therapeutic problem. The treatment depended on location, extension and 
histology of the tumor, clinical condition and the patient desire. It consisted 
of surgery, RT, surgery and postoperatory R, and concurrent QT and RT. The 
treatment should be assessed individually for each patient. The treatment of 
patients with paranasal neoplasms requires a multidisciplinary cooperation. High 
quality care requires the preparation of a team of professionals dedicated to 
their work. We observe generally human trends to restore well being in difficult 
situation. Patients transform the information about them or change the values 
system. Psychooncological help in this field reinforces natural mechanism of 
restoring well being, increasing positive emotions and patient's own activity.

DOI: 10.1016/s0030-6657(11)70641-2
PMID: 21735668 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. J Econ Entomol. 2011 Jun;104(3):799-805. doi: 10.1603/EC10144.

Effect of temperature on life table parameters of predatory thrips Scolothrips 
longicornis (Thysanoptera: Thripidae) fed on twospotted spider mites (Acari: 
Tetranychidae).

Pakyari H(1), Fathipour Y, Enkegaard A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Plant Protection, Faculty of Agriculture, Islamic Azad 
University, Takestan Branch, Qazvin, Iran. pakyari@tiau.ac.ir

Environmental variables such as temperature are important factors that affect 
the efficiency of biological control agents. This study examined the effect of 
temperature on the sex ratio, longevity, oviposition periods, fecundity and life 
table parameters of the predatory thrips Scolothrips longicornis Priesner 
(Thysanoptera: Thripidae) fed on twospotted spider mite, Tetranychus urticae 
Koch (Acari: Tetranychidae), at six constant temperatures: 15, 20, 26, 30, 35, 
and 37 degrees C. Approximately 75% of the progeny were female, except at 37 
degrees C, at which temperature the proportion of males increased. Adult 
longevity as well as the preoviposition, oviposition, and postoviposition 
periods decreased significantly with temperature. Thus, adults lived for 
approximately 5 wk at 15 degrees C and < 1 wk at 37 degrees C with 
preoviposition, oviposition, and postoviposition periods ranging from 6.4 to 
0.4, 24.4-3.1, and 7-0.8 d between the two temperature extremes, respectively. 
The maximum (56.48 eggs) and minimum (11.69 eggs) value of total fecundity was 
recorded at 26 and 37 degrees C, respectively. The intrinsic rate of natural 
increase (r(m)) of S. longicornis increased linearly with increasing temperature 
from 0.056 d(-1) at 15 degrees C to 0.310 d(-1) at 35 degrees C. The lower 
temperature threshold for the population increase of S. longicornis was 
estimated to be around 5 degrees C. The data suggest that the upper temperature 
threshold for the predatory thrips is approximately 37 degrees C. The results 
showed that populations of S. longicornis are able to develop at a broad range 
of temperatures and that this predator is well adapted to the high temperatures 
that occur in the Mediterranean region.

DOI: 10.1603/EC10144
PMID: 21735896 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. J Econ Entomol. 2011 Jun;104(3):814-22. doi: 10.1603/ec10238.

Quality of mass-reared codling moth (Lepidoptera: Tortricidae) after 
long-distance transportation: 1. Logistics of shipping procedures and quality 
parameters as measured in the laboratory.

Blomefield T(1), Carpenter JE, Vreysen MJ.

Author information:
(1)Agricultural Research Council, Private Bag X5026, Stellenbosch, 7599, South 
Africa.

The sterile insect technique (SIT) is a proven effective control tactic against 
lepidopteran pests when applied in an areawide integrated pest management 
program. The construction of insect mass-rearing facilities requires 
considerable investment and moth control strategies that include the use of 
sterile insects could be made more cost-effective through the importation of 
sterile moths produced in other production centers. For codling moth, Cydia 
pomonella (L.) (Lepidoptera: Tortricidae), this is an attractive option because 
mating studies have confirmed the absence of mating barriers between codling 
moth populations from geographically different areas. To assess the feasibility 
of long-distance transportation of codling moths, pupae and adult moths were 
transported in 2004 from Canada to South Africa in four shipments by using 
normal commercial transport routes. The total transport time remained below 67 h 
in three of the consignments, but it was 89 h in the fourth consignment. 
Temperature in the shipping boxes was fairly constant and remained between -0.61 
and 0.16 degrees C for 76.8-85.7% of the time. The data presented indicate that 
transporting codling moths as adults and pupae from Canada to South Africa had 
little effect on moth emergence, longevity, and ability to mate, as assessed in 
the laboratory. These results provide support to the suggestion that the STT for 
codling moth in pome fruit production areas might be evaluated and implemented 
by the importation of irradiated moths from rearing facilities in a different 
country or hemisphere.

DOI: 10.1603/ec10238
PMID: 21735898 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


75. Nucleic Acids Res. 2011 Oct;39(18):7992-8004. doi: 10.1093/nar/gkr280. Epub
2011  Jul 6.

XRCC1 haploinsufficiency in mice has little effect on aging, but adversely 
modifies exposure-dependent susceptibility.

McNeill DR(1), Lin PC, Miller MG, Pistell PJ, de Souza-Pinto NC, Fishbein KW, 
Spencer RG, Liu Y, Pettan-Brewer C, Ladiges WC, Wilson DM 3rd.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Gerontology, National Institute on Aging, National 
Institutes of Health, IRP, Biomedical Research Center, Baltimore, MD 21224, USA.

Oxidative DNA damage plays a role in disease development and the aging process. 
A prominent participant in orchestrating the repair of oxidative DNA damage, 
particularly single-strand breaks, is the scaffold protein XRCC1. A series of 
chronological and biological aging parameters in XRCC1 heterozygous (HZ) mice 
were examined. HZ and wild-type (WT) C57BL/6 mice exhibit a similar median 
lifespan of ~26 months and a nearly identical maximal life expectancy of ~37 
months. However, a number of HZ animals (7 of 92) showed a propensity for 
abdominal organ rupture, which may stem from developmental abnormalities given 
the prominent role of XRCC1 in endoderm and mesoderm formation. For other 
end-points evaluated-weight, fat composition, blood chemistries, condition of 
major organs, tissues and relevant cell types, behavior, brain volume and 
function, and chromosome and telomere integrity-HZ mice exhibited by-and-large a 
normal phenotype. Treatment of animals with the alkylating agent azoxymethane 
resulted in both liver toxicity and an increased incidence of precancerous 
lesions in the colon of HZ mice. Our study indicates that XRCC1 
haploinsufficiency in mammals has little effect on chronological longevity and 
many key biological markers of aging in the absence of environmental challenges, 
but may adversely affect normal animal development or increase disease 
susceptibility to a relevant genotoxic exposure.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gkr280
PMCID: PMC3185405
PMID: 21737425 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. Cancer Genomics Proteomics. 2011 Jul-Aug;8(4):173-83.

Therapy-, gender- and race-specific microRNA markers, target genes and networks 
related to glioblastoma recurrence and survival.

Delfino KR(1), Serão NV, Southey BR, Rodriguez-Zas SL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Animal Sciences, University of Illinois, Urbana, IL 61801, USA.

AIM: To identify and study targets of microRNA biomarkers of glioblastoma 
survival across events (death and recurrence) and phases (life expectancy or 
post-diagnostic) using functional and network analyses.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: microRNAs associated with glioblastoma survival within 
and across race, gender, recurrence, and therapy cohorts were identified using 
253 individuals, 534 microRNAs, Cox survival model, cross-validation, 
discriminant analyses, and cross-study comparison.
RESULTS: All 45 microRNAs revealed as being associated with survival were 
confirmed in independent cancer studies and 25 in glioblastoma studies. 
Thirty-nine and six microRNAs (including hsa-miR-222) were associated with one 
and multiple glioblastoma survival indicators, respectively. Nineteen and 26 
microRNAs exhibited cohort-dependent (including hsa-miR-10b with therapy and 
hsa-miR-486 with race) and independent associations with glioblastoma, 
respectively.
CONCLUSION: Sensory perception and G protein-coupled receptor processes were 
enriched among microRNA gene targets also associated with survival and network 
visualization highlighted their relations. These findings can help to improve 
prognostic tools and personalized treatments.

PMCID: PMC3321577
PMID: 21737610 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


77. Biosci Biotechnol Biochem. 2011;75(7):1295-9. doi: 10.1271/bbb.110072. Epub
2011  Jul 7.

Mechanism of the lifespan extension of Caenorhabditis elegans by electrolyzed 
reduced water--participation of Pt nanoparticles.

Yan H(1), Kinjo T, Tian H, Hamasaki T, Teruya K, Kabayama S, Shirahata S.

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Systems Life Sciences, Kyushu University, Fukuoka, Japan.

Electrolyzed reduced water (ERW) contains a large amount of molecular hydrogen 
and a small amount of Pt nanoparticles (Pt NPs). We have found that ERW 
significantly extended the lifespan of Caenorhabditis elegans in a novel culture 
medium designated Water Medium. In this study, we found that synthetic Pt NPs at 
ppb levels significantly extended the nematode lifespan and scavenged reactive 
oxygen species (ROS) in the nematode induced by paraquat treatment. In contrast, 
a high concentration of dissolved molecular hydrogen had no significant effect 
on the lifespan of the nematode. These findings suggest that the Pt NPs in ERW, 
rather than the molecular hydrogen, extend the longevity of the nematode, at 
least partly by scavenging ROS.

DOI: 10.1271/bbb.110072
PMID: 21737933 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. Q J Nucl Med Mol Imaging. 2011 Aug;55(4):337-52.

Bone metastases, general and clinical issues.

Greco C(1), Forte L, Erba P, Mariani G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, University of Pisa, Pisa, Italy. c.greco@med.unipi.it

The skeleton is the most common organ for metastasis from solid tumours. Bone 
metastases pose significant diagnostic and clinical challenges and represent an 
important cause of cancer-related morbidity. Without appropriate bone-directed 
therapy, many patients will be at high risk for potentially debilitating 
skeletal-related events (SREs), such as pain, bone fractures, neurologic 
deficits and hypercalcemia, severely impacting on the patient's quality of life. 
Because of their high incidence, bone metastases impose significant demands on 
health care resources. The optimal management of skeletal metastases depends on 
the underlying biology of the disease, the extent of bone involvement, the 
presence and severity of symptoms, the availability of effective systemic 
therapies and life expectancy of the patient. This article discusses clinical 
issues concerning diagnosis and available treatment approaches based on the 
presentation of skeletal involvement. Emphasis is placed on the role of external 
beam-radiotherapy as a local mode of treatment for palliation of bone pain, 
decompression of epidural compression and as potential ablative approach through 
high-dose image-guided irradiation (IGRT) in patients presenting with 
oligometastatic disease.

PMID: 21738111 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79. Cardiol Res Pract. 2011;2011:235653. doi: 10.4061/2011/235653. Epub 2011 Jun
9.

Possible association of high urinary magnesium and taurine to creatinine ratios 
with metabolic syndrome risk reduction in Australian aboriginals.

Hamada A(1), Taguchi T, Mori H, Thorpe M, Yamori Y, Mori M.

Author information:
(1)Institute for World Health Development, Mukogawa Women's University, 
Nishinomiya, Hyogo 663 8143, Japan.

Background. Because of the epidemic of metabolic syndrome (MS) in Australian 
Aboriginals known for their higher cardiovascular mortality and shorter life 
expectancy, we analyzed the possible relationship of their MS risks with the 
current dietary custom. Methods. The subjects were 84 people aged 16-79 years. 
The health examination was conducted according to the basic protocol of 
WHO-CARDIAC (Cardiovascular Diseases and Alimentary Comparison) Study. Results. 
The highest prevalence among MS risks was abdominal obesity (over 60%). After 
controlling for age and sex, the odds of obesity decreased significantly with 
high level of urinary magnesium/creatinine ratio (Mg/cre) (OR, 0.11; 95% CI, 
0.02-0.57; P < .05). The significant inverse associations of fat intake with 
Mg/cre and of fast food intake with urinary taurine/creatinine ratio were 
revealed. Conclusions. The high prevalence of obesity in the Aboriginal people 
of this area may partly be due to the reduction of beneficial nutrients intake 
including Mg and taurine.

DOI: 10.4061/2011/235653
PMCID: PMC3123833
PMID: 21738855


80. Cardiol Res Pract. 2011;2011:612968. doi: 10.4061/2011/612968. Epub 2011 Jun
18.

Health-Adjusted Life Expectancy among Canadian Adults with and without 
Hypertension.

Loukine L(1), Waters C, Choi BC, Ellison J.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Chronic Disease Prevention and Control, Public Health Agency of 
Canada (PHAC), Government of Canada, Ottawa, ON, Canada K1A 0K9.

Hypertension can lead to cardiovascular diseases and other chronic conditions. 
While the impact of hypertension on premature death and life expectancy has been 
published, the impact on health-adjusted life expectancy has not, and 
constitutes the research objective of this study. Health-adjusted life 
expectancy (HALE) is the number of expected years of life equivalent to years 
lived in full health. Data were obtained from the Canadian Chronic Disease 
Surveillance System (mortality data 2004-2006) and the Canadian Community Health 
Survey (Health Utilities Index data 2000-2005) for people with and without 
hypertension. Life table analysis was applied to calculate life expectancy and 
health-adjusted life expectancy and their confidence intervals. Our results show 
that for Canadians 20 years of age, without hypertension, life expectancy is 
65.4 years and 61.0 years, for females and males, respectively. HALE is 55.0 
years and 52.8 years for the two sexes at age 20; and 24.7 years and 22.9 years 
at age 55. For Canadians with hypertension, HALE is only 48.9 years and 47.1 
years for the two sexes at age 20; and 22.7 years and 20.2 years at age 55. 
Hypertension is associated with a significant loss in health-adjusted life 
expectancy compared to life expectancy.

DOI: 10.4061/2011/612968
PMCID: PMC3123912
PMID: 21738858


81. Eur J Health Econ. 2012 Dec;13(6):811-8. doi: 10.1007/s10198-011-0338-7. Epub
 2011 Jul 8.

Favourable cost-benefit in an early defibrillation programme using dual dispatch 
of ambulance and fire services in out-of-hospital cardiac arrest.

Sund B(1), Svensson L, Rosenqvist M, Hollenberg J.

Author information:
(1)Swedish Business School, Örebro University, 702 82, Örebro, Sweden. 
bjorn.sund@msb.se

AIMS: Out-of-hospital cardiac arrest is fatal without treatment, and time to 
defibrillation is an extremely important factor in relation to survival. We 
performed a cost-benefit analysis of dual dispatch defibrillation by ambulance 
and fire services in the County of Stockholm, Sweden.
METHODS AND RESULTS: A cost-benefit analysis was performed to evaluate the 
effects of dual dispatch defibrillation. The increased survival rates were 
estimated from a real-world implemented intervention, and the monetary value of 
a life (<euro> 2.2 million) was applied to this benefit by using results from a 
