
Author information:
(1)Institute for Medical Technology Assessment (iMTA), Erasmus University, 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands. hoogendoorn@bmg.eur.nl

BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to estimate the cost-effectiveness of 
tiotropium versus salmeterol to inform decision making within the Dutch 
healthcare setting.
METHODS: A previously published, validated COPD progression model was updated 
with new exacerbation data and adapted to the Dutch setting by including Dutch 
estimates of healthcare use for COPD maintenance treatment and Dutch unit costs. 
Exacerbation data from the POET-COPD trial were combined with evidence from 
earlier tiotropium studies using Bayesian meta-analysis. The model-based 
analysis was performed using a one- and five-year time horizon. Main health 
outcomes were the number of exacerbations and quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs).
RESULTS: One-year costs per patient from the healthcare perspective were v1370 
for tiotropium and v1359 for salmeterol; a difference of v11 (95% uncertainty 
interval (UI): -198-212). The annual number of exacerbations was 0.068 
(-0.005-0.140) lower in the tiotropium group. The number of QALYs in the 
tiotropium group was 0.011 (-0.019-0.049) higher, resulting in an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of v1015 per QALY. After five years, the 
difference in exacerbations, QALYs and costs between the tiotropium and 
salmeterol group were -0.435 (-0.915-0.107), 0.079 (-0.272-0.520) and v-277 
(-1586-1074), respectively, indicating that tiotropium was more effective and 
less costly. Using a societal perspective, tiotropium dominated salmeterol both 
after one and five years.
CONCLUSION: Tiotropium reduced exacerbations and exacerbation-related costs. 
After one year the cost per QALY of tiotropium compared with salmeterol was very 
low, while after five years tiotropium was found to dominate salmeterol.

PMID: 23065983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


418. Semin Dial. 2012 Nov-Dec;25(6):617-22. doi: 10.1111/sdi.12029. Epub 2012 Oct
16.

Aging and ESRD demographics: consequences for the practice of dialysis.

Williams ME(1), Sandeep J, Catic A.

Author information:
(1)Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA. 
mwillia5@bidmc.harvard.edu

The disproportionate increase in the prevalence of chronic kidney disease (CKD) 
and end-stage renal disease (ESRD) in the elderly is now recognized as a 
national and global reality. Among the major contributing factors are the aging 
of the population, a growing prevalence of CKD, greater access to care, and 
increased comorbidities. The utilization of renal replacement therapy in the 
geriatric population has concomitantly increased. It is imposing enormous 
challenges to the practice of ESRD care, the largest of which may be to 
determine the best application of clinical performance targets to a population 
with limitations in life expectancy. Concurrently, increased focus on quality of 
life will be required. The effective dialysis practitioner will need to adapt to 
the aging ESRD demographics with an increased focus on physical and mental 
well-being of the geriatric patient.

© 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1111/sdi.12029
PMID: 23067122 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


419. Mar Genomics. 2013 Mar;9:33-8. doi: 10.1016/j.margen.2012.09.001. Epub 2012
Nov  3.

Identification and validation of single nucleotide polymorphisms in growth- and 
maturation-related candidate genes in sole (Solea solea L.).

Diopere E(1), Hellemans B, Volckaert FA, Maes GE.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Biodiversity and Evolutionary Genomics, KU Leuven (Katholieke 
Universiteit Leuven), Ch. Deberiotstraat 32, B-3000 Leuven, Belgium. 
eveline.diopere@bio.kuleuven.be

Genomic methodologies applied in evolutionary and fisheries research have been 
of great benefit to understand the marine ecosystem and the management of 
natural resources. Although single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) are 
attractive for the study of local adaptation, spatial stock management and 
traceability, and investigating the effects of fisheries-induced selection, they 
have rarely been exploited in non-model organisms. This is partly due to 
difficulties in finding and validating SNPs in species with limited or no 
genomic resources. Complementary to random genome-scan approaches, a targeted 
candidate gene approach has the potential to unveil pre-selected functional 
diversity and provides more in depth information on the action of selection at 
specific genes. For example genes can be under selective pressure due to climate 
change and sustained periods of heavy fishing pressure. In this study, we 
applied a candidate gene approach in sole (Solea solea L.), an important member 
of the demersal ecosystem. As consumption flatfish it is heavy exploited and has 
experienced associated life-history changes over the last 60years. To discover 
novel genetic polymorphisms in or around genes linked to important life history 
traits in sole, we screened a total of 76 candidate genes related to growth and 
maturation using a targeted resequencing approach. We identified in total 86 
putative SNPs in 22 genes and validated 29 SNPs using a multiplex single-base 
extension genotyping assay. We found 22 informative SNPs, of which two represent 
non-synonymous mutations, potentially of functional relevance. These novel 
markers should be rapidly and broadly applicable in analyses of natural sole 
populations, as a measure of the evolutionary signature of overfishing and for 
initiatives on marker assisted selection.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.margen.2012.09.001
PMID: 23067785 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


420. Environ Entomol. 2012 Oct;41(5):1208-14. doi: 10.1603/EN12077.

Age-stage, two-sex life table of Brontispa longissima (Gestro) (Coleoptera: 
Hispidae) feeding on four palm plant varieties.

Jin T(1), Lin YY, Jin QA, Wen HB, Peng ZQ.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Monitoring and Control of Tropical Agricultural and Forest 
Invasive Alien Pests, Ministry of Agriculture, Environment and Plant Protection 
Institute, Chinese Academy of Tropical Agricultural Sciences, Danzhou 571737, 
China.

The life history of Brontispa longissima (Gestro) (Coleoptera: Hispidae), reared 
under laboratory conditions on leaves of coconut (Cocos nucifera L.), royal palm 
[Roystonea regia (Kunth) O.F.Cook], bottle palm [Hyophorbe lagenicaulis (L. 
Bailey) H.E.Moore], and fishtail palm (Caryota ochlandra Hance) was analyzed 
using age-stage, two-sex life table. Means and standard errors of population 
growth parameters were calculated using the jackknife method. Moreover, survival 
rate and fecundity data were applied to project the population for revealing the 
different stage structure. The mean intrinsic rates of population growth when 
reared on each respective leaf type were 0.032, 0.031, 0.019, and 0.044. 
Individuals reared on C. nucifera achieved the highest net reproduction rate at 
114.5 offspring per female. The mean generation times of B. longissima ranged 
from 93.2 d (reared on C. ochlandrai) to 161.5 d (reared on H. lagenicaulis). 
Projections from survival rate and fecundity data indicated that B. longissima 
populations can row considerably faster on C. ochlandra than on the other three 
host plants. The results validate the two-stage life history approach taken, 
providing an essential tool for developing and testing future control 
strategies.

DOI: 10.1603/EN12077
PMID: 23068179 [Indexed for MEDLINE]421. Aust J Prim Health. 2012;18(3):204-11. doi: 10.1071/PY11028.

Cost-effectiveness of pedometer-based versus time-based Green Prescriptions: the 
Healthy Steps Study.

Leung W(1), Ashton T, Kolt GS, Schofield GM, Garrett N, Kerse N, Patel A.

Author information:
(1)School of Population Health, University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand. 
w.leung@auckland.ac.nz

This paper reports on the cost-effectiveness of pedometer-based versus 
time-based Green Prescriptions in improving physical activity and health-related 
quality of life (EQ-5D) in a randomised controlled trial of 330 low-active, 
community-based adults aged 65 years and over. Costs, measured in $NZ 
(NZ$1=A$0.83, December 2008), comprised public and private health care costs 
plus exercise-related personal expenditure. Based on intention-to-treat data at 
12-month follow up, the pedometer group showed a greater increase in weekly 
leisure walking (50.6 versus 28.1min for the time-based group, adjusted means, 
P=0.03). There were no significant between-group differences in costs. The 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios, for the pedometer-based versus time-based 
Green Prescription, per 30min of weekly leisure walking and per quality-adjusted 
life year were, (i) when including only community care costs, $115 and $3105, 
(ii) when including only exercise and community care costs, $130 and $3500, and 
(iii) for all costs, -$185 and -$4999, respectively. The cost-effectiveness 
acceptability curves showed that the pedometer-based compared with the 
time-based Green Prescription was statistically cost-effective, for the above 
cost categories, at the following quality-adjusted life year thresholds: (i) 
$30000; (ii) $30500; and (iii) $16500. The additional program cost of converting 
one sedentary adult to an active state over a 12-month period was $667. The 
outcomes suggest the pedometer-based Green Prescription may be cost-effective in 
increasing physical activity and health-related quality of life over 12 months 
in previously low-active older adults.

DOI: 10.1071/PY11028
PMID: 23069363 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


422. Q J Nucl Med Mol Imaging. 2012 Oct;56(5):440-6.

Correlation of [11C]choline PET-CT with time to treatment and disease-specific 
survival in men with recurrent prostate cancer after radical prostatectomy.

Breeuwsma AJ(1), Rybalov M, Leliveld AM, Pruim J, de Jong IJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University of Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands. 
a.j.breeuwsma@umcg.nl

AIM: Radiotherapy following radical prostatectomy should be considered in men 
with high risk features who have a life expectancy of more than 10 years. So far 
no effect on prostate cancer specific survival has been proven by 3 randomized 
controlled trials (RCTs) on adjuvant radiotherapy. At present the optimal timing 
of radiotherapy is not defined. Identifying the site of recurrence is difficult 
at low PSA levels. [11C]choline PET-CT studies in biochemical recurrent prostate 
cancer after prostatectomy show a higher frequency of (false) negative cases 
compared to restaging after EBRT. It is uncertain if this reflects low volume of 
disease and/or low grade as biopsies fail to prove recurrent cancer in 50% of 
cases. We followed the clinical course of men with recurrent prostate cancer 
after radical prostatectomy and investigated treatment and survival. PET-CT data 
were correlated with clinical data, PSA kinetics and disease specific and 
overall survival. We also studied relative survival comparing an age matched 
group from the Central Dutch Statistical Office (CBS).
METHODS: Sixty-four patients underwent [11C]choline PET-CT on PSA relapse. All 
patients were initially treated with radical prostatectomy and reached PSA nadir 
of <0.1 ng/mL. Recurrent disease was defined as PSA increase <0.2 ng/mL after 
nadir. Patients were either treated with watchful waiting, salvage radiotherapy 
and/or androgen deprivation therapy based on individual assessments by the 
treating urologists. Statistic: χ2, log-rank and Mann-Whitney-U tests were used 
to compare the [11C] choline PET/CT groups.
RESULTS: The 64 patients had median PSA of 1.4 ng/mL. Median follow-up period of 
patients was 50 (6-124) months. Ten patients died during the course of follow-up 
of which 5 due to metastasized disease. No significant differences were seen in 
age, time to recurrence, total PSA at recurrence and PET-CT results. Patients 
with abnormal PET had higher PSAVel (median 3.09 ng/mL/yr versus 10.17, P=0.002) 
and shorter PSADT (med 4.83 months vs. 0.53, P=0.016). Median time to treatment 
was significantly lower in the PET-CT negative group. Age of patients at death 
from the whole group did not differ from the age of death in an age matched 
group. Disease specific survival was significantly higher in the PET-CT negative 
group (P=0.05).
CONCLUSION: [11C]choline PET-CT showed that a negative PET/CT correlated with a 
higher disease specific survival and a lower treatment rate in men with a 
biochemical recurrence after radical prostatectomy. Overall survival of the 
total group was equal to the age matched cohort emphasizing the limited effect 
of a biochemical recurrent prostate cancer on overall survival. The optimum 
timing (adjuvant or early salvage) must be answered in running trials before 
adjuvant RT is used as standard of care.

PMID: 23069923 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


423. Arch Intern Med. 2012 Nov 26;172(21):1682-4. doi: 
10.1001/archinternmed.2012.4448.

Cost-effectiveness of enhanced depression care after acute coronary syndrome: 
results from the Coronary Psychosocial Evaluation Studies randomized controlled 
trial.

Ladapo JA, Shaffer JA, Fang Y, Ye S, Davidson KW.

Comment in
    Arch Intern Med. 2012 Nov 26;172(21):1684-5.

DOI: 10.1001/archinternmed.2012.4448
PMCID: PMC3657548
PMID: 23070196 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


424. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2012 Oct 30;109(44):18210-4. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.1215627109. Epub 2012 Oct 15.

Human mortality improvement in evolutionary context.

Burger O(1), Baudisch A, Vaupel JW.

Author information:
(1)Max Planck Institute for Demographic Research, D-18057 Rostock, Germany. 
burger@demogr.mpg.de

Life expectancy is increasing in most countries and has exceeded 80 in several, 
as low-mortality nations continue to make progress in averting deaths. The 
health and economic implications of mortality reduction have been given 
substantial attention, but the observed malleability of human mortality has not 
been placed in a broad evolutionary context. We quantify the rate and amount of 
mortality reduction by comparing a variety of human populations to the evolved 
human mortality profile, here estimated as the average mortality pattern for 
ethnographically observed hunter-gatherers. We show that human mortality has 
decreased so substantially that the difference between hunter-gatherers and 
today's lowest mortality populations is greater than the difference between 
hunter-gatherers and wild chimpanzees. The bulk of this mortality reduction has 
occurred since 1900 and has been experienced by only about 4 of the roughly 
8,000 human generations that have ever lived. Moreover, mortality improvement in 
humans is on par with or greater than the reductions in mortality in other 
species achieved by laboratory selection experiments and endocrine pathway 
mutations. This observed plasticity in age-specific risk of death is at odds 
with conventional theories of aging.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1215627109
PMCID: PMC3497824
PMID: 23071331 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


425. PLoS One. 2012;7(10):e46701. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0046701. Epub 2012
Oct  10.

Paternal care decreases foraging activity and body condition, but does not 
impose survival costs to caring males in a Neotropical arachnid.

Requena GS(1), Buzatto BA, Martins EG, Machado G.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Ecologia, Instituto de Biociências, Universidade de São 
Paulo, São Paulo, SP, Brazil. billy.requena@gmail.com

Exclusive paternal care is the rarest form of parental investment in nature and 
theory predicts that the maintenance of this behavior depends on the balance 
between costs and benefits to males. Our goal was to assess costs of paternal 
care in the harvestman Iporangaia pustulosa, for which the benefits of this 
behavior in terms of egg survival have already been demonstrated. We evaluated 
energetic costs and mortality risks associated to paternal egg-guarding in the 
field. We quantified foraging activity of males and estimated how their body 
condition is influenced by the duration of the caring period. Additionally, we 
conducted a one-year capture-mark-recapture study and estimated apparent 
survival probabilities of caring and non-caring males to assess potential 
survival costs of paternal care. Our results indicate that caring males forage 
less frequently than non-caring individuals (males and females) and that their 
body condition deteriorates over the course of the caring period. Thus, males 
willing to guard eggs may provide to females a fitness-enhancing gift of 
cost-free care of their offspring. Caring males, however, did not show lower 
survival probabilities when compared to both non-caring males and females. 
Reduction in mortality risks as a result of remaining stationary, combined with 
the benefits of improving egg survival, may have played an important and 
previously unsuspected role favoring the evolution of paternal care. Moreover, 
males exhibiting paternal care could also provide an honest signal of their 
quality as offspring defenders, and thus female preference for caring males 
could be responsible for maintaining the trait.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0046701
PMCID: PMC3468633
PMID: 23071616 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


426. Elife. 2012 Oct 15;1:e00286. doi: 10.7554/eLife.00286.

Could a hormone point the way to life extension?

Kenyon C(1).

Author information:
(1)is at the University of California , San Francisco , United States 
cynthia.kenyon@ucsf.edu.

Comment on
    Elife. 2012;1:e00065.

Mice that have been genetically modified to produce high levels of fibroblast 
growth factor-21 live longer than mice with normal levels of this hormone.

DOI: 10.7554/eLife.00286
PMCID: PMC3470722
PMID: 23071903 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests:The author declares that no 
competing interests exist


427. Curr Pharm Biotechnol. 2012 Dec;13(15):2751-60. doi:
10.2174/138920112804724873.

Ex-ante evaluation of biotechnology innovations: the case of folate biofortified 
rice in China.

De Steur H(1), Blancquaert D, Gellynck X, Lambert W, Van Der Straeten D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Agricultural Economics, Faculty of Bioscience Engineering, 
Ghent University, Coupure Links 653, B-9000 Ghent, Belgium. 
hans.desteur@ugent.be

In order to valorize novel biotechnology innovations, there is a need to 
evaluate ex-ante their market potential. A case in point is biofortification, 
i.e. the enhancement of the micronutrient content of staple crops through 
conventional or genetic breeding techniques. In a recent article in Nature 
Biotechnology, for example, De Steur et al. (2010) demonstrated the large 
potential consumer health benefits of folate biofortified rice as a means to 
reduce folate deficiency and Neural-Tube Defects. By focusing on a Chinese 
high-risk region of Neural-Tube Defects, the current study defines the potential 
cost-effectiveness of this genetically modified crop where the need to improve 
folate intake levels is highest. Building on the Disability-Adjusted Life Years 
(DALY) approach, both the potential health impacts and costs of its 
implementation are measured and benchmarked against similar innovations. The 
results show that this transgenic crop could be a highly cost-effective product 
innovation (US$ 120.34 - US$ 40.1 per DALY saved) to alleviate the large health 
burden of folate deficiency and reduce the prevalence of neural-tube birth 
defects. When compared with other biofortified crops and target regions, folate 
biofortified rice in China has a relatively high health impact and moderate 
cost-effectiveness. This research further supports the need for, and importance 
of ex-ante evaluation studies in order to adequately market and, thus, valorize 
biotechnology innovations. Although the cost-effectiveness analysis enables to 
illustrate the market potential of innovative agricultural biotechnology 
research, further research is required to address policy issues on transgenic 
biofortification, such as biosafety regulatory requirements.

DOI: 10.2174/138920112804724873
PMID: 23072390 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


428. J Laparoendosc Adv Surg Tech A. 2013 Jan;23(1):61-4. doi:
10.1089/lap.2012.0062.  Epub 2012 Oct 16.

Single surgeon experience with laparoscopic surgery in pediatric patients with 
inflammatory bowel disease.

Huang R(1), Koleilat I, Lee EC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Albany Medical Center, Albany, New York 12208, USA.

PURPOSE: Laparoscopic management of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) has been 
well established in adults. Its efficacy and safety are less defined in 
pediatrics. We reviewed our single surgeon laparoscopic experience with 
pediatric IBD patients.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: All consecutive patients 17 years old or younger with IBD 
who underwent initial laparoscopic surgery for management of disease from May 
2002 to May 2011 were identified. Patients were analyzed retrospectively with 
respect to age, gender, weight, American Society of Anesthesiologists 
classification, history of prior abdominal surgery, operative time, need for 
conversion to open procedure, estimated blood loss, need for blood transfusion, 
length of hospitalization, need for intensive care unit monitoring, and patient 
outcomes within 30 days.
RESULTS: In total, 44 pediatric patients underwent 52 laparoscopic surgeries. 
Forty-two patient cases (80.8%) had had no prior abdominal surgery. Mean 
operative time was 132 minutes. Two patients (3.8%) underwent conversion from a 
laparoscopic to open approach. Mean estimated blood loss was 64 mL. The average 
hospitalization was 5.5 days. Postoperative complications occurred in 10 
patients (19.2%): 2 were treated for wound infection or abscess, 7 required 
re-admission, and 1 required return to the operating room for exploratory 
laparotomy.
CONCLUSIONS: Laparoscopic management of IBD has not routinely been implemented 
in the pediatric population. We demonstrate acceptable perioperative morbidity 
and rate of conversion to open with an overall successful laparoscopic approach 
in pediatric patients. This may have particular long-term benefits in a 
population faced with longer life expectancy. An initial laparoscopic approach 
is a feasible and safe option for pediatric IBD patients.

DOI: 10.1089/lap.2012.0062
PMID: 23072408 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


429. Pharmacoeconomics. 2012 Dec 1;30(12):1157-71. doi: 
10.2165/11598470-000000000-00000.

Cost effectiveness of oromucosal cannabis-based medicine (Sativex®) for 
spasticity in multiple sclerosis.

Lu L(1), Pearce H, Roome C, Shearer J, Lang IA, Stein K.

Author information:
(1)Peninsula Technology Assessment Group (PenTAG), Peninsula College of Medicine 
and Dentistry, University of Exeter, UK. lulanting@gmail.com

Erratum in
    Pharmacoeconomics. 2015 Jun;33(6):611.

BACKGROUND: Spasticity is common in patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) and is 
a major contributor to disability. Sativex®, an oromucosal spray containing 
cannabis-based medicinal products, has been found to be effective in reducing 
spasticity symptoms.
OBJECTIVE: Our objective was to estimate the cost effectiveness of Sativex® plus 
oral anti-spasticity medicines compared with the current standard treatment for 
moderate or severe spasticity in MS in the UK.
METHODS: A Markov model was used to assess the costs and benefits of Sativex® 
plus oral anti-spasticity medicines or current standard treatment based on their 
effects on the quality of life of patients. The main outcome was the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) in terms of costs per additional QALY gained 
over 5 years of treatment. One-way, multi-way and probabilistic sensitivity 
analyses were conducted to explore the impact of uncertainties on the findings.
RESULTS: In the base case, Sativex® plus oral anti-spasticity medicines resulted 
in incremental costs of £7600 and a QALY gain of 0.15 per person over 5 years 
(ICER = £49 300 per QALY).[year 2009 data for costs]. Findings were sensitive to 
the costs of Sativex® (price and dose) and differences in utilities between 
responders and non-responders.
CONCLUSIONS: Using a willingness-to-pay threshold of £30 000 per QALY, Sativex® 
appears unlikely to be considered cost effective by UK funders of healthcare for 
spasticity in MS. This is unfortunate, since it appears that Sativex® use is 
likely to benefit some patients in the management of this common consequence of 
MS.

DOI: 10.2165/11598470-000000000-00000
PMID: 23072659 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


430. Clin Exp Rheumatol. 2012 Jul-Aug;30(4 Suppl 73):S126-31. Epub 2012 Oct 18.

Systematic literature review on economic implications and pharmacoeconomic 
issues of psoriatic arthritis.

Cortesi PA(1), Scalone L, D'Angiolella L, Belisari A, Fusco F, Olivieri I, 
Mantovani LG.

Author information:
(1)CESP, Research Centre on Public Health, University of Milano-Bicocca, Monza, 
Italy. paolo.cortesi@unimi.it

The introduction of anti tumour necrosis factors-α (TNF-α) agents has greatly 
advanced the management of psoriatic arthritis (PsA). Functional disability in 
patients with PsA may result in significant impairment of Quality of Life (QoL), 
psychosocial disability and productivity loss. Although many patients respond 
adequately to methotrexate and other therapies, in patients who have incomplete 
responses, anti TNF-α agents reduce inflammation and minimise joints damage, 
increasing functional capacity and QoL, and decreasing the progression rate of 
structural damage in peripheral joints. Because of the high costs associated to 
anti TNF-α agents therapy, an increasing number of economic evaluations have 
been performed over the last few years, and several cost-of-illness and 
cost-effectiveness studies have been published concerning use of anti TNF-α 
agents in management of PsA. We performed a systematic literature review to 
better understand the pharmacoeconomic perspective of PsA. The pharmacoeconomic 
studies analysed have demonstrated the high socioeconomic burden of PsA and that 
TNF-α blockers treatment options provide value for money in the musculoskeletal 
and cutaneous manifestations of psoriatic disease.

PMID: 23072771 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


431. Eur J Hum Genet. 2013 Jun;21(6):643-52. doi: 10.1038/ejhg.2012.222. Epub
2012  Oct 17.

Severe SMA mice show organ impairment that cannot be rescued by therapy with the 
HDACi JNJ-26481585.

Schreml J(1), Riessland M, Paterno M, Garbes L, Roßbach K, Ackermann B, Krämer 
J, Somers E, Parson SH, Heller R, Berkessel A, Sterner-Kock A, Wirth B.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Human Genetics, University of Cologne, Cologne, Germany.

Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is the leading genetic cause of early childhood 
death worldwide and no therapy is available today. Many drugs, especially 
histone deacetylase inhibitors (HDACi), increase SMN levels. As all HDACi tested 
so far only mildly ameliorate the SMA phenotype or are unsuitable for use in 
humans, there is still need to identify more potent drugs. Here, we assessed the 
therapeutic power of the pan-HDACi JNJ-26481585 for SMA, which is currently used 
in various clinical cancer trials. When administered for 64 h at 100 nM, 
JNJ-26481585 upregulated SMN levels in SMA fibroblast cell lines, including 
those from non-responders to valproic acid. Oral treatment of Taiwanese SMA mice 
and control littermates starting at P0 showed no overt extension of lifespan, 
despite mild improvements in motor abilities and weight progression. Many 
treated and untreated animals showed a very rapid decline or unexpected sudden 
death. We performed exploratory autopsy and histological assessment at different 
disease stages and found consistent abnormalities in the intestine, heart and 
lung and skeletal muscle vasculature of SMA animals, which were not prevented by 
JNJ-26481585 treatment. Interestingly, some of these features may be only 
indirectly caused by α-motoneuron function loss but may be major life-limiting 
factors in the course of disease. A better understanding of - primary or 
secondary - non-neuromuscular organ involvement in SMA patients may improve 
standard of care and may lead to reassessment of how to investigate SMA patients 
clinically.

DOI: 10.1038/ejhg.2012.222
PMCID: PMC3658191
PMID: 23073311 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


432. Patient Educ Couns. 2013 Jan;90(1):141-3. doi: 10.1016/j.pec.2012.09.013.
Epub  2012 Oct 13.

Setting clinical priorities: a framework for incorporating individual patient 
preferences.

Dowdy D, Bishai D, Chen AH.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pec.2012.09.013
PMID: 23073315 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


433. Int J Qual Health Care. 2012 Dec;24(6):553-7. doi: 10.1093/intqhc/mzs061.
Epub  2012 Oct 16.

Strengthening the quality agenda in health care in low- and middle-income 
countries: questions to consider.

Ruelas E(1), Gómez-Dantés O, Leatherman S, Fortune T, Gay-Molina JG.

Author information:
(1)National Academy of Medicine, Mexico City, Mexico.

There is a widespread interest in strengthening the quality agenda in low- and 
middle-income countries, but the optimal strategies for achieving this are not 
well defined. We offer an appraisal of the health challenges these countries are 
confronting, the resources and services provided by their health systems and the 
spectrum of options between policy and practice. Global health context section 
presents a brief discussion of the global health context. A descriptive picture 
of health and health care in LMIC section discusses the specific health 
conditions and the health-care environment in developing nations, using 
traditional health and health services indicators as reference points. Questions 
to consider for strengthening the quality improvement agenda in low and 
middle-income countries section sets forth key questions that quality 
improvement professionals should consider in the design of a quality agenda for 
low- and middle-income countries.

DOI: 10.1093/intqhc/mzs061
PMID: 23074183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


434. Ont Health Technol Assess Ser. 2012;12(18):1-41. Epub 2012 Jul 1.

Epilepsy care in ontario: an economic analysis of increasing access to epilepsy 
surgery.

Bowen JM(1), Snead OC, Chandra K, Blackhouse G, Goeree R.

Author information:
(1)Programs for Assessment of Technology in Health (PATH) Research Institute, 
St. Joseph's Healthcare, Hamilton, ON, Canada.

BACKGROUND: In August 2011 a proposed epilepsy care model was presented to the 
Ontario Health Technology Advisory Committee (OHTAC) by an Expert Panel on a 
Provincial Strategy for Epilepsy Care in Ontario. The Expert Panel recommended 
leveraging existing infrastructure in the province to provide enhanced capacity 
for epilepsy care. The point of entry for epilepsy care and the diagnostic 
evaluation for surgery candidacy and the epilepsy surgery would occur at 
regional and district epilepsy centres in London, Hamilton, Toronto, and Ottawa 
and at new centres recommended for northern and eastern Ontario. This economic 
analysis report was requested by OHTAC to provide information about the 
estimated budgetary impact on the Ontario health care system of increasing 
access to epilepsy surgery and to examine the cost-effectiveness of epilepsy 
surgery in both children and adults.
METHODS: A prevalence-based "top-down" health care system budgetary impact model 
from the perspective of the Ministry of Health and Long-Term Care was developed 
to estimate the potential costs associated with expanding health care services 
to increase access to epilepsy care in general and epilepsy surgery in 
particular. A 5-year period (i.e., 2012-2016) was used to project annual costs 
associated with incremental epilepsy care services. Ontario Health Survey 
estimates of epilepsy prevalence, published epilepsy incidence data, and 
Canadian Census results for Ontario were used to approximate the number of 
individuals with epilepsy in the province. Applying these population estimates 
to data obtained from a recent field evaluation study that examined patterns of 
care and costs associated with epilepsy surgery in children, a health care 
system budget impact was calculated and the total costs and incremental costs 
associated with increasing access to surgery was estimated. In order to examine 
the cost-effectiveness of epilepsy surgery in children, a decision analysis 
compared epilepsy surgery to continued medical management in children with 
medically intractable epilepsy. Data from the field evaluation were combined 
with various published data to estimate the costs and outcomes for children with 
drug-refractory epilepsy over a 20-year period. Outcomes were defined as the 
number of quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) accumulated over 20 years 
following epilepsy surgery.
RESULTS: There are about 20,981 individuals with medically intractable epilepsy 
in Ontario. Of these, 9,619 (1,441 children and 8,178 adults) could potentially 
be further assessed at regional epilepsy centres for suitability for epilepsy 
surgery, following initial evaluation at a district epilepsy care centre. The 
health care system impact analysis related to increasing access to epilepsy 
surgery in the Ontario through the addition of epilepsy monitoring unit (EMU) 
beds with video electroencephalography (vEEG) monitoring (total capacity of 15 
pediatric EMU beds and 35 adult EMU beds distributed across the province) and 
the associated clinical resources is estimated to require an incremental $18.1 
million (Cdn) annually over the next 5 years from 2012 to 2016. This would allow 
for about 675 children and 1050 adults to be evaluated each year for suitability 
for epilepsy surgery representing a 150% increase in pediatric epilepsy surgery 
evaluation and a 170% increase in adult epilepsy surgery evaluation. Epilepsy 
surgery was found to be cost-effective compared to continued medical management 
in children with drug-refractory epilepsy with the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio of $25,020 (Cdn) to $69,451 (Cdn) per QALY for 2 of the 
scenarios examined. In the case of choosing epilepsy surgery versus continued 
medical management in children known to be suitable for surgery, the epilepsy 
surgery was found to be less costly and provided greater clinical benefit, that 
is, it was the dominant strategy.
CONCLUSION: Epilepsy surgery for medically intractable epilepsy in suitable 
candidates has consistently been found to provide favourable clinical outcomes 
and has been demonstrated to be cost-effective in both adult and child patient 
populations. The first step to increasing access to epilepsy surgery is to 
provide access to evidence-based care for all patients with epilepsy, both 
adults and children, through the provision of resources to expand EMU bed 
capacity and associated clinical personnel across the province of Ontario.

PMCID: PMC3428718
PMID: 23074428 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


435. Ont Health Technol Assess Ser. 2002;2(1):1-46. Epub 2002 Mar 1.

Endovascular repair of abdominal aortic aneurysm: an evidence-based analysis.

Medical Advisory Secretariat.

The Medical Advisory Secretariat conducted a systematic review of the evidence 
on the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of endovascular repair of abdominal 
aortic aneurysm in comparison to open surgical repair. An abdominal aortic 
aneurysm [AAA] is the enlargement and weakening of the aorta (major blood 
artery) that may rupture and result in stroke and death. Endovascular abdominal 
aortic aneurysm repair [EVAR] is a procedure for repairing abdominal aortic 
aneurysms from within the blood vessel without open surgery. In this procedure, 
an aneurysm is excluded from blood circulation by an endograft (a device) 
delivered to the site of the aneurysm via a catheter inserted into an artery in 
the groin. The Medical Advisory Secretariat conducted a review of the evidence 
on the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of this technology. The review 
included 44 eligible articles out of 489 citations identified through a 
systematic literature search. Most of the research evidence is based on 
non-randomized comparative studies and case series. In the short-term, EVAR 
appears to be safe and comparable to open surgical repair in terms of survival. 
It is associated with less severe hemodynamic changes, less blood transfusion 
and shorter stay in the intensive care and hospital. However, there is concern 
about a high incidence of endoleak, requiring secondary interventions, and in 
some cases, conversion to open surgical repair. Current evidence does not 
support the use of EVAR in all patients. EVAR might benefit individuals who are 
not fit for surgical repair of abdominal aortic aneurysm and whose risk of 
rupture of the aneurysm outweighs the risk of death from EVAR. The long-term 
effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of EVAR cannot be determined at this time. 
Further evaluation of this technology is required.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this health technology policy assessment was to 
determine the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of endovascular repair of 
abdominal aortic aneurysms (EVAR) in comparison to open surgical repair (OSR).
CLINICAL NEED: An abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) is a localized, abnormal 
dilatation of the aorta greater than 3 cm or 50% of the aortic diameter at the 
diaphragm. (1) A true AAA involves all 3 layers of the vessel wall. If left 
untreated, the continuing extension and thinning of the vessel wall may 
eventually result in rupture of the AAA. The risk of death from ruptured AAA is 
80% to 90%. (61) Heller et al. (44) analyzed information from a national 
hospital database in the United States. They found no significant change in the 
incidence rate of elective AAA repair or ruptured AAA presented to the nation's 
hospitals. The investigators concluded that technologic and treatment advances 
over the past 19 years have not affected the outcomes of patients with AAAs, and 
the ability to identify and to treat patients with AAAs has not improved.
CLASSIFICATION OF ABDOMINAL AORTIC ANEURYSMS: At least 90% of the AAAs are 
affected by atherosclerosis, and most of these aneurysms are below the level of 
the renal arteries.(1) An abdominal aortic aneurysm may be symptomatic or 
asymptomatic. An AAA may be classified according to their sizes:(7) SMALL 
ANEURYSMS: less than 5 cm in diameter.MEDIUM ANEURYSMS: 5-7cm.LARGE ANEURYSMS: 
more than 7 cm in diameter.Small aneurysms account for approximately 50% of all 
clinically recognized aneurysms.(7) Aortic aneurysms may be classified according 
to their gross appearance as follows (1): Fusiform aneurysms affect the entire 
circumference of a vessel, resulting in a diffusely dilated lesionSaccular 
aneurysms involve only a portion of the circumference, resulting in an 
outpouching (protrusion) in the vessel wall.
PREVALENCE OF ABDOMINAL AORTIC ANEURYSMS: In community surveys, the prevalence 
of AAA is reported to be between 1% and 5.4%. (61) The prevalence is related to 
age and vascular risk factors. It is more common in men and in those with a 
positive family history. In Canada, Abdominal aortic aneurysms are the 10(th) 
leading cause of death in men 65 years of age or older. (60) Naylor (60) 
reported that the rate of AAA repair in Ontario has increased from 38 per 
100,000 population in 1981/1982 to 54 per 100,000 population in 1991/1992. For 
the period of 1989/90 to 1991/92, the rate of AAA repair in Ontarians age 45 
years and over was 53 per 100,000. (60) In the United States, about 200,000 new 
cases are diagnosed each year, and 50,000 to 60,000 surgical AAA repairs are 
performed. (2) Ruptured AAAs are responsible for about 15,000 deaths in the 
United States annually. One in 10 men older than 80 years has some aneurysmal 
change in his aorta. (2) SYMPTOMS OF ABDOMINAL AORTIC ANEURYSMS: AAAs usually do 
not produce symptoms. However, as they expand, they may become painful. 
Compression or erosion of adjacent tissue by aneurysms also may cause symptoms. 
The formation of mural thrombi, a type of blood clots, within the aneurysm may 
predispose people to peripheral embolization, where blood vessels become 
blocked. Occasionally, an aneurysm may leak into the vessel wall and the 
periadventitial area, causing pain and local tenderness. More often, acute 
rupture occurs without any prior warning, causing acute pain and hypotension. 
This complication is always life-threatening and requires an emergency 
operation.
DIAGNOSIS OF ABDOMINAL AORTIC ANEURYSMS: An AAA is usually detected on routine 
examination as a palpable, pulsatile, and non-tender mass. (1) Abdominal 
radiography may show the calcified outline of the aneurysms; however, about 25% 
of aneurysms are not calcified and cannot be visualized by plain x-ray. (1) An 
abdominal ultrasound provides more accurate detection, can delineate the 
traverse and longitudinal dimensions of the aneurysm, and is useful for serial 
documentation of aneurysm size. Computed tomography and magnetic resonance have 
also been used for follow-up of aortic aneurysms. These technologies, 
particularly contrast-enhanced computer tomography, provide higher resolution 
than ultrasound. Abdominal aortography remains the gold standard to evaluate 
patients with aneurysms for surgery. This technique helps document the extent of 
the aneurysms, especially their upper and lower limits. It also helps show the 
extent of associated athereosclerotic vascular disease. However, the procedure 
carries a small risk of complications, such as bleeding, allergic reactions, and 
atheroembolism. (1) PROGNOSIS OF ABDOMINAL AORTIC ANEURYSMS: The risk of rupture 
of an untreated AAA is a continuous function of aneurysm size as represented by 
the maximal diameter of the AAA. The annual rupture rate is near zero for 
aneurysms less than 4 cm in diameter. The risk is about 1% per year for 
aneurysms 4 to 4.9 cm, 11% per year for aneurysms 5 to 5.9 cm, and 25% per year 
or more for aneurysms greater than 6 cm. (7) The 1-year mortality rate of 
patients with AAAs who do not undergo surgical treatment is about 25% if the 
aneurysms are 4 to 6 cm in diameter. This increases to 50% for aneurysms 
exceeding 6 cm. Other major causes of mortality for people with AAAs include 
coronary heart disease and stroke.
TREATMENT OF ABDOMINAL AORTIC ANEURYSMS: Treatment of an aneurysm is indicated 
under any one of the following conditions: The AAA is greater than 6 cm in 
diameter.The patient is symptomatic.The AAA is rapidly expanding irrespective of 
the absolute diameter.Open surgical repair of AAA is still the gold standard. It 
is a major operation involving the excision of dilated area and placement of a 
sutured woven graft. The surgery may be performed under emergent situation 
following the rupture of an AAA, or it may be performed electively. Elective OSR 
is generally considered appropriate for healthy patients with aneurysms 5 to 6 
cm in diameter. (7) Coronary artery disease is the major underlying illness 
contributing to morbidity and mortality in OSR. Other medical comorbidities, 
such as chronic renal failure, chronic lung disease, and liver cirrhosis with 
portal hypertension, may double or triple the usual risk of OSR. Serial 
noninvasive follow-up of small aneurysms (less than 5 cm) is an alternative to 
immediate surgery. Endovascular repair of AAA is the third treatment option and 
is the topic of this review.

PMCID: PMC3387737
PMID: 23074438


436. Ont Health Technol Assess Ser. 2005;5(1):1-148. Epub 2005 Jan 1.

Bariatric surgery: an evidence-based analysis.

Medical Advisory Secretariat.

OBJECTIVE: To conduct an evidence-based analysis of the effectiveness and 
cost-effectiveness of bariatric surgery.
BACKGROUND: Obesity is defined as a body mass index (BMI) of at last 30 
kg/m(2).() Morbid obesity is defined as a BMI of at least 40 kg/m(2) or at least 
35 kg/m(2) with comorbid conditions. Comorbid conditions associated with obesity 
include diabetes, hypertension, dyslipidemias, obstructive sleep apnea, 
weight-related arthropathies, and stress urinary incontinence. It is also 
associated with depression, and cancers of the breast, uterus, prostate, and 
colon, and is an independent risk factor for cardiovascular disease. Obesity is 
also associated with higher all-cause mortality at any age, even after adjusting 
for potential confounding factors like smoking. A person with a BMI of 30 
kg/m(2) has about a 50% higher risk of dying than does someone with a healthy 
BMI. The risk more than doubles at a BMI of 35 kg/m(2). An expert estimated that 
about 160,000 people are morbidly obese in Ontario. In the United States, the 
prevalence of morbid obesity is 4.7% (1999-2000). In Ontario, the 2004 Chief 
Medical Officer of Health Report said that in 2003, almost one-half of Ontario 
adults were overweight (BMI 25-29.9 kg/m(2)) or obese (BMI ≥ 30 kg/m(2)). About 
57% of Ontario men and 42% of Ontario women were overweight or obese. The 
proportion of the population that was overweight or obese increased gradually 
from 44% in 1990 to 49% in 2000, and it appears to have stabilized at 49% in 
2003. The report also noted that the tendency to be overweight and obese 
increases with age up to 64 years. BMI should be used cautiously for people aged 
65 years and older, because the "normal" range may begin at slightly above 18.5 
kg/m(2) and extend into the "overweight" range. The Chief Medical Officer of 
Health cautioned that these data may underestimate the true extent of the 
problem, because they were based on self reports, and people tend to over-report 
their height and under-report their weight. The actual number of Ontario adults 
who are overweight or obese may be higher. Diet, exercise, and behavioural 
therapy are used to help people lose weight. The goals of behavioural therapy 
are to identify, monitor, and alter behaviour that does not help weight loss. 
Techniques include self-monitoring of eating habits and physical activity, 
stress management, stimulus control, problem solving, cognitive restructuring, 
contingency management, and identifying and using social support. Relapse, when 
people resume old, unhealthy behaviour and then regain the weight, can be 
problematic. Drugs (including gastrointestinal lipase inhibitors, serotonin 
norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, and appetite suppressants) may be used if 
behavioural interventions fail. However, estimates of efficacy may be confounded 
by high rates of noncompliance, in part owing to the side effects of the drugs. 
In addition, the drugs have not been approved for indefinite use, despite the 
chronic nature of obesity.
THE TECHNOLOGY: Morbidly obese people may be eligible for bariatric surgery. 
Bariatric surgery for morbid obesity is considered an intervention of last 
resort for patients who have attempted first-line forms of medical management, 
such as diet, increased physical activity, behavioural modification, and drugs. 
There are various bariatric surgical procedures and several different variations 
for each of these procedures. The surgical interventions can be divided into 2 
general types: malabsorptive (bypassing parts of the gastrointestinal tract to 
limit the absorption of food), and restrictive (decreasing the size of the 
stomach so that the patient is satiated with less food). All of these may be 
performed as either open surgery or laparoscopically. An example of a 
malabsorptive technique is Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RYGB). Examples of 
restrictive techniques are vertical banded gastroplasty (VBG) and adjustable 
gastric banding (AGB). The Ontario Health Insurance Plan (OHIP) Schedule of 
Benefits for Physician Services includes fee code "S120 gastric bypass or 
partition, for morbid obesity" as an insured service. The term gastric bypass is 
a general term that encompasses a variety of surgical methods, all of which 
involve reconfiguring the digestive system. The term gastric bypass does not 
include AGB. The number of gastric bypass procedures funded and done in Ontario, 
and funded as actual out-of-country approvals,() is shown below. Number of 
Gastric Bypass Procedures by Fiscal Year: Ontario and Actual Out-of-Country 
(OOC) ApprovalsData from Provider Services, MOHLTCCourtesy of Provider Services, 
Ministry of Health and Long Term Care
REVIEW STRATEGY: The Medical Advisory Secretariat reviewed the literature to 
assess the effectiveness, safety, and cost-effectiveness of bariatric surgery to 
treat morbid obesity. It used its standard search strategy to retrieve 
international health technology assessments and English-language journal 
articles from selected databases. The interventions of interest were bariatric 
surgery and, for the controls, either optimal conventional management or another 
type of bariatric procedure. The outcomes of interest were improvement in 
comorbid conditions (e.g., diabetes, hypertension); short- and long-term weight 
loss; quality of life; adverse effects; and economic analysis data. The 
databases yielded 15 international health technology assessments or systematic 
reviews on bariatric surgery. Subsequently, the Medical Advisory Secretariat 
searched MEDLINE and EMBASE from April 2004 to December 2004, after the search 
cut-off date of April, 2004, for the most recent systematic reviews on bariatric 
surgery. Ten studies met the inclusion criteria. One of those 10 was the Swedish 
Obese Subjects study, which started as a registry and intervention study, and 
then published findings on people who had been enrolled for at least 2 years or 
at least 10 years. In addition to the literature review of economic analysis 
data, the Medical Advisory Secretariat also did an Ontario-based economic 
analysis.
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS: Bariatric surgery generally is effective for sustained 
weight loss of about 16% for people with BMIs of at least 40 kg/m(2) or at least 
35 kg/m(2) with comorbid conditions (including diabetes, high lipid levels, and 
hypertension). It also is effective at resolving the associated comorbid 
conditions. This conclusion is largely based on level 3a evidence from the 
prospectively designed Swedish Obese Subjects study, which recently published 
10-year outcomes for patients who had bariatric surgery compared with patients 
who received nonsurgical treatment. (1)Regarding specific procedures, there is 
evidence that malabsorptive techniques are better than other banding techniques 
for weight loss and resolution of comorbid illnesses. However, there are no 
published prospective, long-term, direct comparisons of these techniques 
available.Surgery for morbid obesity is considered an intervention of last 
resort for patients who have attempted first-line forms of medical management, 
such as diet, increased physical activity, behavioural modification, and drugs. 
In the absence of direct comparisons of active nonsurgical intervention via 
caloric restriction with bariatric techniques, the following observations are 
made:A recent systematic review examining the efficacy of major commercial and 
organized self-help weight loss programs in the United States concluded that the 
evidence to support the use of such programs was suboptimal, except for one 
trial on Weight Watchers. Furthermore, the programs were associated with high 
costs, attrition rates, and probability of regaining at least 50% of the lost 
weight in 1 to 2 years. (2)A recent randomized controlled trial reported 1-year 
outcomes comparing weight loss and metabolic changes in severely obese patients 
assigned to either a low-carbohydrate diet or a conventional weight loss diet. 
At 1 year, weight loss was similar for patients in each group (mean, 2-5 kg). 
There was a favourable effect on triglyceride levels and glycemic control in the 
low-carbohydrate diet group. (3)A decision-analysis model showed bariatric 
surgery results in increased life expectancy in morbidly obese patients when 
compared to diet and exercise. (4)A cost-effectiveness model showed bariatric 
surgery is cost-effective relative to nonsurgical management. (5)Extrapolating 
from 2003 data from the United States, Ontario would likely need to do 3,500 
bariatric surgeries per year. It currently does 508 per year, including 
out-of-country surgeries.

PMCID: PMC3382415
PMID: 23074460


437. Ont Health Technol Assess Ser. 2005;5(4):1-78. Epub 2005 Mar 1.

Spinal cord stimulation for neuropathic pain: an evidence-based analysis.

Medical Advisory Secretariat.

OBJECTIVE: The objective of this health technology policy assessment was to 
determine the effectiveness of spinal cord stimulation (SCS) to manage chronic 
intractable neuropathic pain and to evaluate the adverse events and 
Ontario-specific economic profile of this technology.
CLINICAL NEED: SCS is a reversible pain therapy that uses low-voltage electrical 
pulses to manage chronic, intractable neuropathic pain of the trunk or limbs. 
Neuropathic pain begins or is caused by damage or dysfunction to the nervous 
system and can be difficult to manage. The prevalence of neuropathic pain has 
been estimated at about 1.5% of the population in the United States and 1% of 
the population in the United Kingdom. These prevalence rates are generalizable 
to Canada. Neuropathic pain is extremely difficult to manage. People with 
symptoms that persist for at least 6 months or who have symptoms that last 
longer than expected for tissue healing or resolution of an underlying disease 
are considered to have chronic pain. Chronic pain is an emotional, social, and 
economic burden for those living with it. Depression, reduced quality of life 
(QOL), absenteeism from work, and a lower household income are positively 
correlated with chronic pain. Although the actual number is unknown, a 
proportion of people with chronic neuropathic pain fail to obtain pain relief 
from pharmacological therapies despite adequate and reasonable efforts to use 
them. These people are said to have intractable neuropathic pain, and they are 
the target population for SCS. The most common indication for SCS in North 
America is chronic intractable neuropathic pain due to failed back surgery 
syndrome (FBSS), a term that describes persistent leg or back and leg pain in 
patients who have had back or spine surgery. Neuropathic pain due to complex 
regional pain syndrome (CRPS), which can develop in the distal aspect of a limb 
a minor injury, is another common indication. To a lesser extent, chronic 
intractable pain of postherpetic neuralgia, which is a persistent burning pain 
and hyperesthesia along the distribution of a cutaneous nerve after an attack of 
herpes zoster, is also managed with SCS. For each condition, SCS is considered 
as a pain management therapy only after conventional pain therapies, including 
pharmacological, nonpharmacological, and surgical treatments, if applicable, 
have been attempted and have failed.
THE TECHNOLOGY: The SCS technology consists of 3 implantable components: a pulse 
generator, an extension cable, and a lead (a small wire). The pulse generator is 
the power source for the spinal cord stimulator. It generates low-voltage 
electrical pulses. The extension cable connects the pulse generator to the lead. 
The lead is a small, insulated wire that has a set of electrodes at one end. The 
lead is placed into the epidural space on the posterior aspect of the spinal 
cord, and the electrodes are positioned at the level of the nerve roots 
innervating the painful area. An electrical current from the electrodes induces 
a paresthesia, or a tingling sensation that masks the pain. Before SCS is 
initiated, candidates must have psychological testing to rule out major 
psychological illness, drug habituation, and issues of secondary gain that can 
negatively influence the success of the therapy. Successful candidates will have 
a SCS test stimulation period (trial period) to assess their responsiveness to 
SCS. The test stimulation takes about 1 week to complete, and candidates who 
obtain at least 50% pain relief during this period are deemed suitable to 
receive a permanent implantation of a spinal cord stimulator
REVIEW STRATEGY: The Medical Advisory Secretariat (MAS) reviewed all published 
health technology assessments of spinal cord stimulation. Following this, a 
literature search was conducted from 2000 to January, 2005 and a systematic 
review of the literature was completed. The primary outcome for the systematic 
review was pain relief. Secondary outcomes included functional status and 
quality of life. After applying the predetermined inclusion and exclusion 
criteria, 2 randomized controlled trials (MAS level 2 evidence), and 2 
prospective non-randomized controlled trials with a before-and-after-treatment 
study design (MAS level 3a evidence) were retrieved and reviewed.
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS: The authors of 6 health technology assessments concluded 
that evidence exists to support the effectiveness of SCS to decrease pain in 
various neuropathic pain syndromes. However, the quality of this evidence varied 
among reports from weak to moderate. The systematic review completed by MAS 
found high quality level 2 evidence that SCS decreases pain and level 3a 
evidence that it improves functional status and quality of life in some people 
with neuropathic pain conditions. The rate of technical failures was 
approximately 11%, which included electrode lead migration and/or malposition. 
Procedural complications included infection and dural puncture; each occurred at 
a rate of 1.2%.
CONCLUSIONS: SCS may be considered for patients with chronic, neuropathic pain 
for whom standard pain treatments have failed and when there is no indication 
for surgical intervention to treat the underlying condition.

PMCID: PMC3382299
PMID: 23074473


438. Ont Health Technol Assess Ser. 2006;6(19):1-43. Epub 2006 Nov 1.

Nanotechnology: an evidence-based analysis.

Medical Advisory Secretariat.

OBJECTIVE: Due to continuing advances in the development of structures, devices, 
and systems with a length of about 1 to 100 nanometres (nm) (1 nm is one 
billionth of a metre), the Medical Advisory Secretariat conducted a horizon 
