scanning appraisal of nanotechnologies as new and emerging technologies, 
including an assessment of the possibly disruptive impact of future 
nanotechnologies. The National Cancer Institute (NCI) in the United States 
proclaimed a 2015 challenge goal of eliminating suffering and death from cancer. 
To help meet this goal, the NCI is engaged in a concerted effort to introduce 
nanotechnology "to radically change the way we diagnose, treat and prevent 
cancer." It is the NCI's position that "melding nanotechnology and cancer 
research and development efforts will have a profound, disruptive effect on how 
we diagnose, treat, and prevent cancer." Thus, this appraisal sought to 
determine the systemic effects of nanotechnologies that target, image and 
deliver drugs, for example, with respect to health human resources, training, 
and new specialties; and to assess the current status of these nanotechnologies 
and their projected timeline to clinical utilization.
CLINICAL NEED: TARGET POPULATION AND CONDITION Cancer is a heterogeneous set of 
many malignant diseases. In each sex, 3 sites account for over one-half of all 
cancers. In women, these are the breast (28%), colorectum (13%) and lungs (12%). 
In men, these are the prostate (28%), lungs (15%), and the colorectum (13%). It 
is estimated that 246,000 people in Ontario (2% of the population) have been 
diagnosed with cancer within the past 10 years and are still alive. Most were 
diagnosed with cancer of the breast (21%), prostate (20%), or colon or rectum 
(13%). The number of new cancer cases diagnosed each year in Ontario is expected 
to increase from about 53,000 in 2001 to 80,000 in 2015. This represents more 
than a 50% increase in new cases over this period. An aging population, 
population growth, and rising cancer risk are thought to be the main factors 
that will contribute to the projected increase in the number of new cases. THE 
TECHNOLOGY BEING REVIEWED - MEDICAL ADVISORY SECRETARIAT DEFINITION OF 
NANOTECHNOLOGY: FIRST-GENERATION NANOTECHNOLOGIES: Early application of 
nanotechnology-enabled products involved drug reformulation to deliver some 
otherwise toxic drugs (e.g., antifungal and anticancer agents) in a safer and 
more effective manner. Examples of first-generation nanodevices include the 
following: liposomes;albumin bound nanoparticles;gadolinium chelate for magnetic 
resonance imaging (MRI);iron oxide particles for MRI;silver nanoparticles 
(antibacterial wound dressing); andnanoparticulate dental 
restoratives.First-generation nanodevices have been in use for several years; 
therefore, they are not the focus of this report. SECOND-GENERATION 
NANOTECHNOLOGIES: Second-generation nanotechnologies are more sophisticated than 
first- generation nanotechnologies, due to novel molecular engineering that 
enables the devices to target, image, deliver a therapeutic agent, and monitor 
therapeutic efficacy in real time. Details and examples of second-generation 
nanodevices are discussed in the following sections of this report.
REVIEW STRATEGY: The questions asked were as follows: What is the status of 
these multifunctional nanotechnologies? That is, what is the projected timeline 
to clinical utilization?What are the systemic effects of multifunctional 
nanodevices with integrated applications that target, image, and deliver drugs? 
That is, what are the implications of the emergence of nanotechnology on health 
human resources training, new specialties, etc.?The Medical Advisory Secretariat 
used its usual search techniques to conduct the literature review by searching 
relevant databases. Outcomes of interest were improved imaging, improved 
sensitivity or specificity, improved response rates to therapeutic agents, and 
decreased toxicity.
RESULTS: The search yielded 1 health technology assessment on nanotechnology by 
The Centre for Technology Assessment TA-Swiss and, in the grey literature, a 
technology review by RAND. These, in addition to data from the National Cancer 
Institute (United States) formed the basis for the conclusions of the review. 
With respect to the question as to how soon until nanotechnology is used in 
patient care, overall, the use of second-generation nanodevices, (e.g., quantum 
dots [QDs]), nanoshells, dendrimers) that can potentially target, image, and 
deliver drugs; and image cell response to therapy in real time are still in the 
preclinical benchwork stage. Table 1 summarizes the projected timelines to 
clinical utilization. Table 1:Summary of Timelines to Clinical 
Use*Organization/YearSecond-Generation NanodeviceEstimate of When Nanodevice 
Will be in Clinical UseNCI 2001Imaging/detection (e.g., QDs)Therapeutic (e.g., 
nanoshell)Combined (e.g., dendrimer)~2006-2016~2006-2016~2016-2020NCI 
2004Imaging/detectionTherapeuticCombined~2009-2019~2009-2019~2019-2024RAND 
2006Combinedunlikely before 2021Swiss 
2003ImagingTherapeuticCombined~2005-2010~2008-2013~ 2010-2013*NCI refers to 
National Cancer Institute; QD, quantum dot.Medical Advisory Secretariat 
Estimated Timeline for Ontario Upon synthesizing the estimated timelines from 
the NCI, the Swiss technology assessment and the RAND reports (Figure 1), it 
appears that: the clinical use of separate imaging and therapeutic nanodevices 
is estimated to start occurring around 2010;the clinical use of combined imaging 
and therapeutic nanodevices is estimated to start occurring around 2020;changes 
in the way disease is diagnosed, treated and monitored are anticipated; andthe 
full (and realistic) extent of these changes within the next 10 to 20 years is 
uncertain.Figure 1:Medical Advisory Secretariat Estimated Timeline for the 
Clinical Use of Second-Generation Nanodevices in OntarioWith respect to the 
question on potential systemic effects of second-generation nanodevices (i.e., 
the implications of the emergence of these nanodevices on health human resources 
training, new specialties etc.), Table 2 summarizes the findings from the 
review. Table 2:Potential Systemic Effects Caused by Second Generation 
Nanodevices*ImagingTherapeuticCombined (Detect, Image, Treat, Monitor)Increased 
sensitivity and specificity of QDs or other nanodevices could lead to the 
replacement of existing technologies (e.g., PSA testing, mammogram).Sudden 
demand in use of MRI due to use of nanodevices that are activated in the 
presence of a magnetic field.Universal demand to detect cancer- how will 
patients be prioritized for this?Sudden demand in use of MRI due to use of 
nanodevices that are activated in the presence of a magnetic field.Cost: 
possibly more expensive than current screening modalities.Possibly more 
expensive than existing therapies (gold nanoshells)Many functions can be 
performed on one device → possibly faster, more cost-effective than individual 
devices.Report of results: possibly faster than existing technologies.Possibly 
faster determination of therapeutic efficacy (vs. existing technologies)Increase 
in life expectancy of population? Free-up beds in hospitals?Nanodevices may be 
able to pinpoint with more accuracy when cancer starts.Ethical question: when 
does disease start?Increased demand for imaging by people who are asymptomatic 
and concerned they may get cancer.Nano-radiologist or medical nano-oncologist 
provides treatment rather than conventional radiologists or medical 
oncologists.Creation of nano-nursing compared to conventional 
nursing.Nano-radiologist or medical nano-oncologist provides treatment, rather 
than conventional radiologists or medical oncologists.Creation of nano-nursing 
compared to conventional nursing.Uncertainty regarding how many "traditional" 
cancer radiologists/oncologists should be retained and trained.New branch of 
(nano) radiology compared to conventional radiology New/longer training in 
biochemistry and targeting ligands will be required by nanoradiologists.More 
training required for new nano-treatments Patient education - people may be 
concerned regarding the use of nanodevices inside their bodies.Longer time to 
specialize in medicine in order to use nanotechnology clinically?Insufficient 
number of dendrimer specialists to treat everyone with personalized 
dendrimersRestricted to specialized centres Possible in-house nanodevice 
production required to keep up with the demand for use.Will the same specialized 
centres that offer imaging also offer treatment?How many specialized centres 
will be required?Only specialized centres can perform this combined 
imaging/treatmentPossible nano-monitoring from patient home via wireless 
technology. This may free hospital beds for other patients.After imaging with 
nanodevices, specifically targeted therapeutic nanodevices may also be required 
for immediate treatment of the patient. Will both of these nanodevices be 
commercially available in sufficient quantities?Possible waiting time for 
preparation of appropriately targeted nanodevice after imaging (will a 
therapeutic nanodevice be immediately available?)Will a patient receive 
conventional treatment if there is a waiting period required to prepare the 
therapeutic nanodevice?Will there be a patient waiting time required for 
preparation of personalized dendrimers (hours, days, weeks after a patient sees 
a physician)?*MRI indicates magnetic resonance imaging; PSA, prostate-specific 
antigen; QD, quantum dot.
UNCERTAINTIES NOT ADDRESSED IN THE LITERATURE: The United States National 
Nanotechnology Initiative (NNI) funds a variety of research in the economic, 
ethical, legal, and cultural implications of the use of nanotechnology, as well 
as the implications for science, education and quality of life. There are many 
uncertainties that are sparsely or not addressed at all in the literature 
regarding second generation nanodevices. (ABSTRACT TRUNCATED)

PMCID: PMC3379172
PMID: 23074489


439. Ont Health Technol Assess Ser. 2006;6(2):1-67. Epub 2006 Jan 1.

Ultrasound screening for abdominal aortic aneurysm: an evidence-based analysis.

Medical Advisory Secretariat.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this review was to assess the effectiveness of ultrasound 
screening for asymptomatic abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA).
CLINICAL NEED: Abdominal aortic aneurysm is a localized abnormal dilatation of 
the aorta greater than 3 cm. In community surveys, the prevalence of AAA is 
reported to be between 2% and 5.4%. Abdominal aortic aneurysms are found in 4% 
to 8% of older men and in 0.5% to 1.5% of women aged 65 years and older. 
Abdominal aortic aneurysms are largely asymptomatic. If left untreated, the 
continuing extension and thinning of the vessel wall may eventually result in 
rupture of the AAA. Often rupture may occur without warning, causing acute pain. 
Rupture is always life threatening and requires emergency surgical repair of the 
ruptured aorta. The risk of death from ruptured AAA is 80% to 90%. Over one-half 
of all deaths attributed to a ruptured aneurysm take place before the patient 
reaches hospital. In comparison, the rate of death in people undergoing elective 
surgery is 5% to 7%; however, symptoms of AAA rarely occur before rupture. Given 
that ultrasound can reliably visualize the aorta in 99% of the population, and 
its sensitivity and specificity for diagnosing AAA approaches 100%, screening 
for aneurysms is worth considering as it may reduce the incidence of ruptured 
aneurysms and hence reduce unnecessary deaths caused by AAA-attributable 
mortality.
REVIEW STRATEGY: The Medical Advisory Secretariat used its standard search 
strategy to retrieve international health technology assessments and 
English-language journal articles from selected databases to determine the 
effectiveness of ultrasound screening for abdominal aortic aneurysms. Case 
reports, letters, editorials, nonsystematic reviews, non-human studies, and 
comments were excluded. Questions asked: Is population-based AAA screening 
effective in improving health outcomes in asymptomatic populations?Is AAA 
screening acceptable to the population? Does this affect the effectiveness the 
screening program?How often should population-based screening occur?What are 
appropriate treatment options after screening based on the size of aneurysms?Are 
there differences between universal and targeted screening strategies?What are 
the harms of screening?
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS: Population-based ultrasound screening is effective in men 
aged 65 to 74 years, particularly in those with a history of smoking. Screening 
reduces the incidence of AAA ruptures, and decreases rates of emergency surgical 
repair for AAA and AAA-attributable mortality.Acceptance rates decline with 
increasing age and are lower for women. Low acceptance rates may affect the 
effectiveness of a screening program.A one-time screen is sufficient for a 
population-based screening program with regard to initial negative scans and 
development of large AAAs.There is no difference between early elective surgical 
repair and surveillance for small aneurysms (4.0-5.4 cm). Repeated surveillance 
of small aneurysms is recommended.Targeted screening based on history of smoking 
has been found to detect 89% of prevalent AAAs and increase the efficiency of 
screening programs from statistical modeling data.Women have not been studied 
for AAA screening programs. There is evidence suggesting that screening women 
for AAA should be considered with respect to mortality and case fatality rates 
in Ontario. It is important that further evaluation of AAAs in women occur.There 
is a small risk of physical harm from screening. Less than 1% of aneurysms will 
not be visualized on initial screen and a re-screen may be necessary; elective 
surgical repair is associated with a 6% operative morality rate and about 3% of 
small aneurysms may rupture during surveillance. These risks should be 
communicated through informed consent prior to screening.There is little 
evidence of severe psychological harms associated with screening.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on this review, the Medical Advisory Secretariat concluded 
that there is sufficient evidence to determine that AAA screening using 
ultrasound is effective and reduces negative health outcomes associated with the 
condition. Moreover, screening for AAA is cost-effective, comparing favorably 
for the cost of per life year gained for screening programs for cervical cancer, 
hypertension, and breast cancer that are in practice in Ontario, with a high 
degree of compliance, and can be undertaken with a minimal effort at fewer than 
10 minutes to screen each patient. Overall, the clinical utility of an 
invitation to use ultrasound screening to identify AAA in men aged 65 to 74 is 
effective at reducing AAA-attributable mortality. The benefit of screening women 
is not yet established. However, Ontario data indicate several areas of concern 
including population prevalence, detection of AAA in women, and case management 
of AAA in women in terms of age cutoffs for screening and natural history of 
disease associated with age of rupture.

PMCID: PMC3379169
PMID: 23074490


440. Ont Health Technol Assess Ser. 2006;6(4):1-57. Epub 2006 Feb 1.

Metal-on-Metal Total Hip Resurfacing Arthroplasty: An Evidence-Based Analysis.

Medical Advisory Secretariat.

OBJECTIVE: The objective of this review was to assess the safety and 
effectiveness of metal on metal (MOM) hip resurfacing arthroplasty for young 
patients compared with that of total hip replacement (THR) in the same 
population.
CLINICAL NEED: Total hip replacement has proved to be very effective for late 
middle-aged and elderly patients with severe degenerative diseases of the hips. 
As indications for THR began to include younger patients and those with a more 
active life style, the longevity of the implant became a concern. Evidence 
suggests that these patients experience relatively higher rates of early implant 
failure and the need for revision. The Swedish hip registry, for example, has 
demonstrated a survival rate in excess of 80% at 20 years for those aged over 65 
years, whereas this figure was 33% by 16 years in those aged under 55 years. Hip 
resurfacing arthroplasty is a bone-conserving alternative to THR that restores 
normal joint biomechanics and load transfer. The technique has been used around 
the world for more than 10 years, specifically in the United Kingdom and other 
European countries.
THE TECHNOLOGY: Metal-on-metal hip resurfacing arthroplasty is an alternative 
procedure to conventional THR in younger patients. Hip resurfacing arthroplasty 
is less invasive than THR and addresses the problem of preserving femoral bone 
stock at the initial operation. This means that future hip revisions are 
possible with THR if the initial MOM arthroplasty becomes less effective with 
time in these younger patients. The procedure involves the removal and 
replacement of the surface of the femoral head with a hollow metal hemisphere, 
which fits into a metal acetabular cup. Hip resurfacing arthroplasty is a 
technically more demanding procedure than is conventional THR. In hip 
resurfacing, the femoral head is retained, which makes it much more difficult to 
access the acetabular cup. However, hip resurfacing arthroplasty has several 
advantages over a conventional THR with a small (28 mm) ball. First, the large 
femoral head reduces the chance of dislocation, so that rates of dislocation are 
less than those with conventional THR. Second, the range of motion with hip 
resurfacing arthroplasty is higher than that achieved with conventional THR. A 
variety of MOM hip resurfacing implants are used in clinical practice. Six MOM 
hip resurfacing implants have been issued licences in Canada.
REVIEW STRATEGY: A search of electronic bibliographies (OVID Medline, Medline 
In-Process and Other Non-Indexed Citations, Embase, Cochrane CENTRAL and DSR, 
INAHTA) was undertaken to identify evidence published from Jan 1, 1997 to 
October 27, 2005. The search was limited to English-language articles and human 
studies. The literature search yielded 245 citations. Of these, 11 met inclusion 
criteria (9 for effectiveness, 2 for safety). The result of the only reported 
randomized controlled trial on MOM hip resurfacing arthroplasty could not be 
included in this assessment, because it used a cemented acetabular component, 
whereas in the new generation of implants, a cementless acetabular component is 
used. After omitting this publication, only case series remained.
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS:   HEALTH OUTCOMES: The Harris hip score and SF-12 are 2 
measures commonly used to report health outcomes in MOM hip resurfacing 
arthroplasty studies. Other scales used are the Oxford hip score and the 
University of California Los Angeles hip score. The case series showed that the 
mean revision rate of MOM hip resurfacing arthroplasty is 1.5% and the incidence 
of femoral neck fracture is 0.67%. Across all studies, 2 cases of osteonecrosis 
were reported. Four studies reported improvement in Harris hip scores. However, 
only 1 study reported a statistically significant improvement. Three studies 
reported improvement in SF-12 scores, of which 2 reported a significant 
improvement. One study reported significant improvement in UCLA hip score. Two 
studies reported postoperative Oxford hip scores, but no preoperative values 
were reported. None of the reviewed studies reported procedure-related deaths. 
Four studies reported implant survival rates ranging from 94.4% to 99.7% for a 
follow-up period of 2.8 to 3.5 years. Three studies reported on the range of 
motion. One reported improvement in all motions including flexion, extension, 
abduction-adduction, and rotation, and another reported improvement in flexion. 
Yet another reported improvement in range of motion for flexion 
abduction-adduction and rotation arc. However, the author reported a decrease in 
the range of motion in the arc of flexion in patients with Brooker class III or 
IV heterotopic bone (all patients were men). SAFETY OF METAL-ON-METAL HIP 
RESURFACING ARTHROPLASTY: There is a concern about metal wear debris and its 
systemic distribution throughout the body. Detectable metal concentrations in 
the serum and urine of patients with metal hip implants have been described as 
early as the 1970s, and this issue is still controversial after 35 years. 
Several studies have reported high concentration of cobalt and chromium in serum 
and/or urine of the patients with metal hip implants. Potential toxicological 
effects of the elevated metal ions have heightened concerns about safety of MOM 
bearings. This is of particular concern in young and active patients in whom 
life expectancy after implantation is long. Since 1997, 15 studies, including 1 
randomized clinical trial, have reported high levels of metal ions after THR 
with metal implants. Some of these studies have reported higher metal levels in 
patients with loose implants.
ADVERSE BIOLOGICAL EFFECTS OF COBALT AND CHROMIUM: Because patients who receive 
a MOM hip arthroplasty are shown to be exposed to high concentrations of 
metallic ions, the Medical Advisory Secretariat searched the literature for 
reports of adverse biological effects of cobalt and chromium. Cobalt and 
chromium make up the major part of the metal articulations; therefore, they are 
a focus of concern.
RISK OF CANCER: To date, only one study has examined the incidence of cancer 
after MOM and polyethylene on metal total hip arthroplasties. The results were 
compared to that of general population in Finland. The mean duration of 
follow-up for MOM arthroplasty was 15.7 years; for polyethylene arthroplasty, it 
was 12.5 years. The standardized incidence ratio for all cancers in the MOM 
group was 0.95 (95% CI, 0.79-1.13). In the polyethylene on metal group it was 
0.76 (95% CI, 0.68-0.86). The combined standardized incidence ratio for lymphoma 
and leukemia in the patients who had MOM THR was 1.59 (95% CI, 0.82-2.77). It 
was 0.59 (95% CI, 0.29-1.05) for the patients who had polyethylene on metal THR. 
Patients with MOM THR had a significantly higher risk of leukemia. All patients 
who had leukemia were aged over than 60 years.
COBALT CARDIOTOXICITY:   EPIDEMIOLOGICAL STUDIES OF MYOCARDIOPATHY OF BEER 
DRINKERS: An unusual type of myocardiopathy, characterized by pericardial 
effusion, elevated hemoglobin concentrations, and congestive heart failure, 
occurred as an epidemic affecting 48 habitual beer drinkers in Quebec City 
between 1965 and 1966. This epidemic was directly related the consumption of a 
popular beer containing cobalt sulfate. The epidemic appeared 1 month after 
cobalt sulfate was added to the specific brewery, and no further cases were seen 
a month after this specific chemical was no longer used in making this beer. A 
beer of the same name is made in Montreal, and the only difference at that time 
was that the Quebec brand of beer contained about 10 times more cobalt sulphate. 
Cobalt has been added to some Canadian beers since 1965 to improve the stability 
of the foam but it has been added in larger breweries only to draught beer. 
However, in small breweries, such as those in Quebec City, separate batches were 
not brewed for bottle and draught beer; therefore, cobalt was added to all of 
the beer processed in this brewery. In March 1966, a committee was appointed 
under the chairmanship of the Deputy Minister of Health for Quebec that included 
members of the department of forensic medicine of Quebec's Ministry of Justice, 
epidemiologists, members of Food and Drug Directorate of Ottawa, toxicologists, 
biomedical researchers, pathologists, and members of provincial police. 
Epidemiological studies were carried out by the Provincial Ministry of Health 
and the Quebec City Health Department. The association between the development 
of myocardiopathy and the consumption of the particular brand of beer was 
proven. The mortality rate of this epidemic was 46.1% and those who survived 
were desperately ill, and recovered only after a struggle for their lives. 
Similar cases were seen in Omaha (Nebraska). The epidemic started after a cobalt 
additive was used in 1 of the beers marketed in Nebraska. Sixty-four patients 
with the clinical diagnosis of alcoholic myocardiopathy were seen during an 
18-month period (1964-1965). Thirty of these patients died. The first patient 
became ill within 1 month after cobalt was added to the beer, and the last 
patient was seen within 1 month of withdrawal of cobalt. A similar epidemic 
occurred in Minneapolis, Minnesota. Between 1964 and 1967, 42 patients with 
acute heart failure were admitted to a hospital in Minneapolis, Minnesota. 
Twenty of these patients were drinking 6 to 30 bottles per day of a particular 
brand of beer exclusively. The other 14 patients also drank the same brand of 
beer, but not exclusively. The mortality rate from the acute illness was 18%, 
but late deaths accounted for a total mortality rate of 43%. Examination of the 
tissue from these patients revealed markedly abnormal changes in myofibrils 
(heart muscles), mitochondria, and sarcoplasmic reticulum. In Belgium, a similar 
epidemic was reported in 1966, in which, cobalt was used in some Belgian beers. 
(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED)

PMCID: PMC3379532
PMID: 23074495


441. Ont Health Technol Assess Ser. 2007;7(5):1-101. Epub 2006 Nov 1.

Low-density lipoprotein apheresis: an evidence-based analysis.

Medical Advisory Secretariat.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the effectiveness and safety of low-density lipoprotein 
(LDL) apheresis performed with the heparin-induced extracorporeal LDL 
precipitation (HELP) system for the treatment of patients with refractory 
homozygous (HMZ) and heterozygous (HTZ) familial hypercholesterolemia (FH). 
BACKGROUND ON FAMILIAL HYPERCHOLESTEROLEMIA: Familial hypercholesterolemia is a 
genetic autosomal dominant disorder that is caused by several mutations in the 
LDL-receptor gene. The reduced number or absence of functional LDL receptors 
results in impaired hepatic clearance of circulating low-density lipoprotein 
cholesterol (LDL-C) particles, which results in extremely high levels of LDL-C 
in the bloodstream. Familial hypercholesterolemia is characterized by excess 
LDL-C deposits in tendons and arterial walls, early onset of atherosclerotic 
disease, and premature cardiac death. Familial hypercholesterolemia occurs in 
both HTZ and HMZ forms. Heterozygous FH is one of the most common monogenic 
metabolic disorders in the general population, occurring in approximately 1 in 
500 individuals. Nevertheless, HTZ FH is largely undiagnosed and an accurate 
diagnosis occurs in only about 15% of affected patients in Canada. Thus, it is 
estimated that there are approximately 3,800 diagnosed and 21,680 undiagnosed 
cases of HTZ FH in Ontario. In HTZ FH patients, half of the LDL receptors do not 
work properly or are absent, resulting in plasma LDL-C levels 2- to 3-fold 
higher than normal (range 7-15mmol/L or 300-500mg/dL). Most HTZ FH patients are 
not diagnosed until middle age when either they or one of their siblings present 
with symptomatic coronary artery disease (CAD). Without lipid-lowering 
treatment, 50% of males die before the age of 50 and 25% of females die before 
the age of 60, from myocardial infarction or sudden death. In contrast to the 
HTZ form, HMZ FH is rare (occurring in 1 case per million persons) and more 
severe, with a 6- to 8-fold elevation in plasma LDL-C levels (range 15-25mmol/L 
or 500-1000mg/dL). Homozygous FH patients are typically diagnosed in infancy, 
usually due to the presence of cholesterol deposits in the skin and tendons. The 
main complication of HMZ FH is supravalvular aortic stenosis, which is caused by 
cholesterol deposits on the aortic valve and in the ascending aorta. The average 
life expectancy of affected individuals is 23 to 25 years. In Ontario, it is 
estimated that there are 13 to 15 cases of HMZ FH. An Ontario clinical expert 
confirmed that 9 HMZ FH patients have been identified to date.
DIAGNOSIS: There are 2 accepted clinical diagnostic criterion for the diagnosis 
of FH: the Simon Broome FH Register criteria from the United Kingdom and the 
Dutch Lipid Network criteria from the Netherlands. The criterion supplement 
cholesterol levels with clinical history, physical signs and family history. 
DNA-based-mutation-screening methods permit a definitive diagnosis of HTZ FH to 
be made. However, given that there are over 1000 identified mutations in the LDL 
receptor gene and that the detection rates of current techniques are low, 
genetic testing becomes problematic in countries with high genetic 
heterogeneity, such as Canada.
TREATMENT: The primary aim of treatment in both HTZ and HMZ FH is to reduce 
plasma LDL-C levels in order to reduce the risk of developing atherosclerosis 
and CAD. The first line of treatment is dietary intervention, however it alone 
is rarely sufficient for the treatment of FH patients. Patients are frequently 
treated with lipid-lowering drugs such as resins, fibrates, niacin, statins and 
cholesterol absorption-inhibiting drugs (ezetimibe). Most HTZ FH patients 
require a combination of drugs to achieve or approach target cholesterol levels. 
A small number of HTZ FH patients are refractory to treatment or intolerant to 
lipid-lowering medication. According to clinical experts, the prevalence of 
refractory HTZ FH in Ontario is between 1 to 5%. Using the mean of 3%, it is 
estimated that there are approximately 765 refractory HTZ FH patients in 
Ontario, of which 115 are diagnosed and 650 are undiagnosed. Drug therapy is 
less effective in HMZ FH patients since the effects of the majority of 
cholesterol-lowering drugs are mediated by the upregulation of LDL receptors, 
which are often absent or function poorly in HMZ FH patients. Some HMZ FH 
patients may still benefit from drug therapy, however this rarely reduces LDL-C 
levels to targeted levels. EXISTING TECHNOLOGY: PLASMA EXCHANGE An option 
currently available in Ontario for FH patients who do not respond to standard 
diet and drug therapy is plasma exchange (PE). Patients are treated with this 
lifelong therapy on a weekly or biweekly basis with concomitant drug therapy. 
Plasma exchange is nonspecific and eliminates virtually all plasma proteins such 
as albumin, immunoglobulins, coagulation factors, fibrinolytic factors and 
HDL-C, in addition to acutely lowering LDL-C by about 50%. Blood is removed from 
the patient, plasma is isolated, discarded and replaced with a substitution 
fluid. The substitution fluid and the remaining cellular components of the blood 
are then returned to the patient. The major limitation of PE is its 
nonspecificity. The removal of HDL-C prevents successful vascular remodeling of 
the areas stenosed by atherosclerosis. In addition, there is an increased 
susceptibility to infections, and costs are incurred by the need for replacement 
fluid. Adverse events can be expected to occur in 12% of procedures. OTHER 
ALTERNATIVES: Surgical alternatives for FH patients include portocaval shunt, 
ileal bypass and liver transplantation. However, these are risky procedures and 
are associated with a high morbidity rate. Results with gene therapy are not 
convincing to date.
THE TECHNOLOGY BEING REVIEWED: LDL APHERESIS An alternative to PE is LDL 
apheresis. Unlike PE, LDL apheresis is a selective treatment that removes LDL-C 
and other atherogenic lipoproteins from the blood while minimally impacting 
other plasma components such as HDL-C, total serum protein, albumin and 
immunoglobulins. As with PE, FH patients require lifelong therapy with LDL 
apheresis on a weekly/biweekly basis with concomitant drug therapy. 
HEPARIN-INDUCED EXTRACORPOREAL LDL PRECIPITATION: Heparin-induced extracorporeal 
LDL precipitation (HELP) is one of the most widely used methods of LDL 
apheresis. It is a continuous closed-loop system that processes blood 
extracorporeally. It operates on the principle that at a low pH, LDL and 
lipoprotein (a) [Lp(a)] bind to heparin and fibrinogen to form a precipitate 
which is then removed by filtration. In general, the total duration of treatment 
is approximately 2 to 3 hours. Results from early trials indicate that LDL-C 
concentration is reduced by 65% to 70% immediately following treatment in both 
HMZ and HTZ FH and then rapidly begins to rise. Typically patients with HTZ FH 
are treated every 2 weeks while patients with HMZ FH require weekly therapy. 
Heparin-induced extracorporeal LDL precipitation also produces small transient 
decreases in HDL-C, however levels generally return to baseline within 2 days. 
After several months of therapy, long-term reductions in LDL-C and increases in 
HDL-C have been reported. In addition to having an impact on plasma cholesterol 
concentrations, HELP lowers plasma fibrinogen, a risk factor for 
atherosclerosis, and reduces concentrations of cellular adhesion molecules, 
which play a role in early atherogenesis. In comparison with PE, HELP LDL 
apheresis does not have major effects on essential plasma proteins and does not 
require replacement fluid, thus decreasing susceptibility to infections. One 
study noted that adverse events were documented in 2.9% of LDL apheresis 
treatments using the HELP system compared with 12% using PE. As per the 
manufacturer, patients must weigh at least 30kgs to be eligible for treatment 
with HELP.
REGULATORY STATUS: The H.E.L.P.® System (B.Braun Medizintechnologie GmbH, 
Germany) has been licensed by Health Canada since December 2000 as a Class 3 
medical device (Licence # 26023) for performing LDL apheresis to acutely remove 
LDL from the plasma of 3 high-risk patient populations for whom diet has been 
ineffective and maximum drug therapy has either been ineffective or not 
tolerated. The 3 patient groups are as follows: Functional hypercholesterolemic 
homozygotes with LDL-C >500 mg/dL (>13mmol/L);Functional hypercholesterolemic 
heterozygotes with LDL-C >300 mg/dL (>7.8mmol/L);Functional hypercholesterolemic 
heterozygotes with LDL-C >200 mg/dL (>5.2mmol/L) and documented CADNo other LDL 
apheresis system is currently licensed in Canada.
REVIEW STRATEGY: The Medical Advisory Secretariat systematically reviewed the 
literature to assess the effectiveness and safety of LDL apheresis performed 
with the HELP system for the treatment of patients with refractory HMZ and HTZ 
FH. A standard search methodology was used to retrieve international health 
technology assessments and English-language journal articles from selected 
databases. The GRADE approach was used to systematically and explicitly make 
judgments about the quality of evidence and strength of recommendations.
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS: The search identified 398 articles published from January 
1, 1998 to May 30, 2007. Eight studies met the inclusion criteria. Five case 
series, 2 case series nested within comparative studies, and one retrospective 
review, were included in the analysis. A health technology assessment conducted 
by the Alberta Heritage Foundation for Medical Research, and a review by the 
United States Food and Drug Administration were also included. Large 
heterogeneity among the studies was observed. Studies varied in inclusion 
criteria, baseline patient characteristics and methodology. Overall, the mean 
acute relative decrease in LDL-C with HELP LDL apheresis ranged from 53 to 77%. 
The mean acute relative reductions ranged as follows: total cholesterol (TC) 47 
to 64%, HDL-C +0. (ABSTRACT TRUNCATED)

PMCID: PMC3377562
PMID: 23074505


442. J Hum Nutr Diet. 2013 Feb;26(1):48-55. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-277X.2012.01289.x.  Epub 2012 Oct 17.

Nutritional status, dietary habits, nutritional knowledge and self-care 
assessment in a group of older adults attending community centres in Pavia, 
Northern Italy.

Turconi G(1), Rossi M, Roggi C, Maccarini L.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, Department of Public Health, Neuroscience, Experimental 
and Forensic Medicine, Section of Human Nutrition and Dietetics, Via Bassi, 
University of Pavia, Pavia, Italy. gturconi@unipv.it

BACKGROUND: The population of industrialised countries is ageing as a 
consequence of an increase in life expectancy. As a result of the increasing 
ageing process, the assessment of nutritional status and dietary habits, as well 
as the assessment of self-care, is needed to plan selected actions aimed at 
improving the quality of life in the third and fourth life spans.
METHODS: A cross-sectional study was carried out on a randomly selected sample 
of 200 healthy older adults (≥65 years old), attending community centres for 
older people in Pavia, Northern Italy. Ninety-two percent of the recruited 
subjects participated in the survey. Anthropometric measurements and the Mini 
Nutritional Assessment were performed. Dietary habits, nutritional knowledge and 
self-care were investigated using a questionnaire administered by two 
dietitians.
RESULTS: The majority of subjects were low socio-economic status and overweight 
[mean (SD) body mass index = 28.4 (4.3) kg/m(2) ], 12% were malnourished 
according to their Mini Nutritional Assessment score and the majority of the arm 
muscle circumference measurements were below the 10th percentile, predicting 
accelerated loss of lean mass, even in the healthy independently living older 
adults. Only 30% of the sample had adequate dietary habits, whereas the ability 
to self-care was good for the whole sample.
CONCLUSIONS: The unhealthy and unbalanced diet, frequently too rich in sugar and 
fats and low in protein intake, might explain being overweight and the loss of 
lean mass in the study subjects.

© 2012 The Authors Journal of Human Nutrition and Dietetics © 2012 The British 
Dietetic Association Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-277X.2012.01289.x
PMID: 23075389 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


443. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2012 Oct 17;10:CD005599. doi: 
10.1002/14651858.CD005599.pub3.

Topical cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator gene replacement for 
cystic fibrosis-related lung disease.

Lee TW(1), Southern KW.

Author information:
(1)Leeds Regional Paediatric Cystic Fibrosis Centre, Children’s Day Hospital, St 
James’s University Hospital, Leeds, UK. timlee@doctors.org.uk.

Update in
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2013;11:CD005599.

Update of
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2007;(2):CD005599.

BACKGROUND: Cystic fibrosis is caused by a defective gene encoding a protein 
called the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR), and is 
characterised by chronic lung infection resulting in inflammation and 
progressive lung damage that results in a reduced life expectancy.
OBJECTIVES: To determine whether topical CFTR gene replacement therapy to the 
lungs in people with cystic fibrosis is associated with improvements in clinical 
outcomes, and to assess any adverse effects.
SEARCH METHODS: We searched the Cochrane Cystic Fibrosis and Genetic Disorders 
Group Trials Register comprising references identified from comprehensive 
electronic database searches, handsearching relevant journals and abstract books 
of conference proceedings.Date of most recent search: 19 July 2012.An additional 
search of the National Institutes for Health (NIH) Genetic Modification Clinical 
Research Information System (GeMCRIS) was also performed for the years 1992 to 
2012.Date of most recent search: 25 July 2012.
SELECTION CRITERIA: Randomised controlled trials comparing topical CFTR gene 
delivery to the lung, using either viral or non-viral delivery systems, with 
placebo or an alternative delivery system in people with confirmed cystic 
fibrosis.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: The authors independently extracted data and 
assessed study quality. Authors of included studies were contacted and asked for 
any available additional data. Meta-analysis was limited due to differing study 
designs.
MAIN RESULTS: Three randomised controlled trials met the inclusion criteria for 
this review, involving a total of 155 participants. Fourteen studies were 
excluded. The included studies differed in terms of CFTR gene replacement agent 
and study design, which limited the meta-analysis.Although the first Moss study 
reported a significant improvement in respiratory function (forced expiratory 
volume at one second) 30 days after participants had received their first dose 
of gene therapy agent, this finding was not confirmed in their larger second 
study or in our meta-analysis.In participants who received the CFTR gene 
transfer agents in the Alton study, "influenza-like" symptoms were found (risk 
ratio 7.00 (95% confidence interval 1.10 to 44.61)). There were no other 
significant increases in adverse events in any of the studies.Alton measured ion 
transport in the lower airways and demonstrated significant changes toward 
normal values in the participants who received gene transfer agents (P < 
0.0001), mean difference 6.86 (95% CI of 3.77 to 9.95). In these participants 
there was also evidence of increased salt transport in cells obtained by 
brushing the lower airway. These outcomes, whilst important, are not of direct 
clinical relevance.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: There is currently no evidence to support the use of CFTR 
gene transfer reagents as a treatment for lung disease in people with cystic 
fibrosis. Future studies need to investigate clinically important outcome 
measures.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD005599.pub3
PMID: 23076917 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


444. J Nutr. 2012 Dec;142(12):2199S-2206S. doi: 10.3945/jn.111.157388. Epub 2012
Oct  17.

Application of the International Life Sciences Institute Key Events 
Dose-Response Framework to food contaminants.

Fenner-Crisp PA(1).

Author information:
(1)pfennercrisp@aol.com

Contaminants are undesirable constituents in food. They may be formed during 
production of a processed food, present as a component in a source material, 
deliberately added to substitute for the proper substance, or the consequence of 
poor food-handling practices. Contaminants may be chemicals or pathogens. 
Chemicals generally degrade over time and become of less concern as a health 
threat. Pathogens have the ability to multiply, potentially resulting in an 
increased threat level. Formal structures have been lacking for systematically 
generating and evaluating hazard and exposure data for bioactive agents when 
problem situations arise. We need to know what the potential risk may be to 
determine whether intervention to reduce or eliminate contact with the 
contaminant is warranted. We need tools to aid us in assembling and assessing 
all available relevant information in an expeditious and scientifically sound 
manner. One such tool is the International Life Sciences Institute (ILSI) Key 
Events Dose-Response Framework (KEDRF). Developed as an extension of the WHO's 
International Program on Chemical Safety/ILSI mode of action/human relevance 
framework, it allows risk assessors to understand not only how a contaminant 
exerts its toxicity but also the dose response(s) for each key event and the 
ultimate outcome, including whether a threshold exists. This presentation will 
illustrate use of the KEDRF with case studies included in its development 
(chloroform and Listeriaonocytogenes) after its publication in the peer-reviewed 
scientific literature (chromium VI) and in a work in progress (3-monochloro-1, 
2-propanediol).

DOI: 10.3945/jn.111.157388
PMID: 23077190 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


445. Rev Med Chir Soc Med Nat Iasi. 2012 Jan-Mar;116(1):50-5.

[Disability assessment tools in psoriatic arthritis: VICON gait].

[Article in Romanian]

Miu SS(1), Ancuţa C, Belibou IC, Macovei L, Chirieac R.

Author information:
(1)Facultatea de Medicină, Universităţii de Medicină si Farmacie "Grigore T. 
Popa", Iaşi.

AIM: To evaluate health-related quality of life and disability in psoriatic 
arthritis (PsA) and to perform a complex biomechanical gait analysis in patients 
with PsA versus healthy controls.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Preliminary prospective study on 33 consecutive PsA (2006 
CASPAR criteria), with active multiple joint involvement disease. Assessments 
were done according to a predefined protocol and included: rheumatology-clinical 
evaluation and activity scores, dermatology- Psoriasis Area and Severity Index, 
PASI-score; functional disability- Health Assessment Questionnaire, HAQ, quality 
of life score- Short Form36, SF36; biomechanical gait analysis- tridimensional 
VICON MX optical motion capture system in PsA versus 33 age- and sex-matched 
healthy controls. SPSS, EPI-INFO and MS EXCEL were used for statistical 
analysis.
RESULTS: While the majority of PsA patients experienced a moderate impact on the 
quality of life as assessed by SF36 analysis, severe disease had major impact on 
their physical and emotional health status. The VICON gait analysis proved the 
statistical significant change (p < 0.05) on several gait parameters as compared 
to controls, including: decreased range of motion for flexion/extension of the 
lower limbs joins and lower cadence, decreased walking speed and step length. 
Statistically si gnificant correlations (Spearman, p < 0.05) between changes in 
PsA gait parameters and SF36 results, but no association with HAQ (p > 0.05) has 
been reported.
CONCLUSIONS: The PsA burden is related to both quality of life and functional 
impairment. Severe changes in gait parameters are essentially reflected in SF36 
analysis.

PMID: 23077872 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


446. Rev Med Chir Soc Med Nat Iasi. 2012 Apr-Jun;116(2):580-7.

[Current microbiological data on lower respiratory tract infection in cystic 
fibrosis. Part I: Isolated microorganisms and their clinical significance].

[Article in Romanian]

Coman G(1), Petraru E, Dahorea C, Anton DT.

Author information:
(1)Laboratorul de Microbiologie, Spitalul Clinic de Urgente pentru Copii "Sf. 
Maria" Iaşi.

Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a disease that degrades the local defense mechanisms of 
the lower respiratory tract. As a result, patients develop recurrent infections 
that progressively deteriorates antiinfection defenses and represent the major 
cause of mortality. A hallmark of those infections is the diversity of 
microorganisms isolated from broncho-alveolar lavage or sputum. The clinical 
significance of isolates is different, the recognition of the role in altering 
of respiratory function being important in guiding antibiotic therapy. Current 
data support pathogenicity in CF of S. aureus, P. aeruginosa and B. cepacia 
complex, the latter two being considered "preterminal bacteria". S. aureus was 
the most common cause of mortality and morbidity in preantibiotic era. Today, 
life expectancy was improved with the introduction of antistaphylococcal 
antibiotics. Hypermutation of P. aeruginosa--the most common species isolated 
from patients with CF, is the essential factor in the development of 
multi-resistance to antibiotics. As P. aeruginosa, B. cenocepacia is a virulent 
species that cause infections with poor prognosis. Microorganisms with secondary 
role (H. influenzae, S. maltophilia, atypical Mycobacteria, Aspergillus spp) 
whose clinical significance has not been clarified yet, require further studies.

PMID: 23077957 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


447. J Women Aging. 1993;5(3-4):201-20. doi: 10.1300/J074v05n03_14.

Public policy, health care and older women.

Jorgensen LA(1).

Author information:
(1)a Associate Dean, Graduate School of Social Work, University of Utah, Salt 
Lake City, UT, 84112.

For the first time in history, long life has become a problem. The most serious 
problem facing the older generation is the availability and affordability of 
health care. While the life expectancy of both men and women cbntinues to 
increase, the older population of the U.S. is becoming increasingly feminine. In 
the last two decades there has been a dramatic fall in poverty among the aged, 
yet for many elderly persons and especially older women, Social Security 
benefits barely keep them above the poverty level. Access to medical care has 
improved with Medicaid and Medicare, but not to the extent the aging population 
had anticipated. Proposals for universal health care have been put forth by 
politicians, legislators and professional organizations, some of which 
acknowledge the unique health problems of aging women while others are 
discriminatory to the aged in general and women in particular. Many believe 
women must assert themselves if their health care needs are to be adequately and 
fairly addressed. To this end, more women than ever are becoming involved in the 
political process, running for and being elected to local, state and national 
offices. It is anticipated that these women will be sensitive to the health care 
needs of older women and put forth efforts to develop and implement policies 
which address these needs.

DOI: 10.1300/J074v05n03_14
PMID: 23078001


448. Clin Exp Rheumatol. 2012 Jul-Aug;30(4 Suppl 73):S85-90. Epub 2012 Oct 16.

Payers' views on treating-to-target in rheumatoid arthritis: an English 
perspective.

Scott IC(1), Wailoo A, Scott DL.

Author information:
(1)Academic Department of Rheumatology, King's College London School of 
Medicine, Weston Education Centre, 10 Cutcombe Rd, London SE5 9RJ, UK. 
ian.c.scott@btinternet.com

OBJECTIVES: Delivering treat-to-target strategies in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) 
involves commitments from both providers and payers for healthcare. We have 
summarised the perspectives of payers from England, where the National Health 
Service (NHS) provides universal care that is without cost for patients.
METHODS: We reviewed the literature - including that from the NHS and National 
Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) - concerning payers views on 
the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of treat-to-target strategies 
for RA.
RESULTS: Commissioners pay for government-funded English healthcare and 
providers (divided between General Practitioners (GPs) and Hospital Consultants) 
and deliver it according to NICE guidance. Treat-to-target using intensive 
disease-modifying drug (DMARD) combinations with glucocorticoids are recommended 
for early active RA. Treatment tapering is recommended when disease control is 
achieved. Some aspects of treat-to-target are recommended in established RA, 
including the early management of flares and the use of biologics in 
persistently active RA that is non-responsive to DMARDs. However, 
treat-to-target is not widely recommended in established RA, mainly because the 
evidence base is incomplete. English healthcare is moving towards quality care 
becoming the main driver and is adopting 'integrated care' involving both GPs 
and consultants for most long-term disorders; RA is likely to be included within 
these approaches, which are unlikely to focus specifically on treat-to-target.
CONCLUSIONS: Payers strongly support treat-to-target in early RA. In established 
disease there is limited enthusiasm; without stronger evidence for efficacy and 
cost-effectiveness this is unlikely to change.

PMID: 23078814 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


449. Clin Exp Rheumatol. 2012 Jul-Aug;30(4 Suppl 73):S107-11. Epub 2012 Oct 16.

Critical analysis of economic tools and economic measurement applied to 
rheumatoid arthritis.

Her M(1), Kavanaugh A.

Author information:
(1)Division of Rheumatology, Pusan Paik Hospital, Inje University, Busan, South 
Korea. bettyboomboo@hanmail.net

Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is chronic, progressive systemic inflammatory disease 
that if uncontrolled may lead to significant joint damage, dysfunction, work 
disability and other sequelae that result in large economic losses. A rich 
literature estimating the economic burden of RA, has been intensified recently, 
driven by costly biologic agents that have had a notable effect improving the 
outcomes of patients with RA. In order to optimally assess the value of 
therapies, it is best to take a comprehensive approach, considering all related 
costs of illness. This includes direct costs (e.g. the costs of the medications 
themselves and the monitoring required), indirect costs (e.g. loss of 
productivity, such as employment due to uncontrolled disease) and intangible 
cost (e.g. effects on pain and quality of life). Indirect costs constitute a 
substantial part of total cost in the patient with RA. In order to help assess 
the impact of RA on productivity, various tools for measuring productive loss 
like absenteeism and presenteeism have been introduced. No single tool reflects 
the entire spectrum of the productive loss clearly, as other factors such as use 
of a human capital approach or friction cost approach affect the valuation of 
productive loss monetarily. Although favourable outcomes are achieved with the 
use of biologic agents, their higher acquisition costs, as compared to 
traditional disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs) remain a barrier to 
their use. Assessments of the cost effectiveness of novel therapies are 
critically important, but published results have been contradictory, in some 
measure due to the heterogeneity of instruments utilised. While the various 
instruments appear to be valid and reliable, correlations between instruments 
has been modest, driven by factors such as differences in recall times, 
attribution and other confounders.

PMID: 23078839 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


450. Clin Exp Rheumatol. 2012 Jul-Aug;30(4 Suppl 73):S96-101. Epub 2012 Oct 18.

Interest of modelling in rheumatoid arthritis.

Beresniak A(1), Dupont DM, Becker JC, Merkesdal S.

Author information:
(1)Data Mining International, Geneva, Switzerland. 
aberesniak@datamining-international.com

Such as prospective studies can provide evidence-based information for 
clinicians and regulatory agencies, modelling studies provide useful information 
when experimental studies are to complex, too long, or too expensive to carry 
out. If modelling has been widely used in pharmacokinetics, it is in the field 
of pharmacoeconomics that numerous models have been published in recent years, 
including models relevant to the management of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). The 
most common modelling techniques published in RA are decision trees and Markov 
models which are used to perform cost-effectiveness and cost-utility analyses 
using real or simulated populations. This paper reviews the main types of 
modelling techniques used in pharmacoeconomic studies with the aim of clarifying 
their interest and limitations for the clinicians. Generating such evidence is 
highly relevant to assisting clinical recommendations and reimbursement 
decisions towards enabling the optimal management of RA and reducing its overall 
clinical and economic burden, for the benefits of patients and health systems.

PMID: 23078913 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


451. Clin Exp Rheumatol. 2012 Jul-Aug;30(4 Suppl 73):S91-5. Epub 2012 Oct 16.

A clinician's perspective on pharmacoeconomics and rheumatology.

Thielscher C(1).

Author information:
(1)FOM University of Applied Sciences, Essen, Germany. 
christian.thielscher@fom.de

This paper provides a brief introduction into pharmacoeconomics and its role in 
rheumatology from the perspective of a clinician, and is regarded as providing 
complementary simplified explanations for rheumatologists, which are used in a 
in much greater sophistication and complexity in other articles in this 
supplement. Different definitions of pharmacoeconomics are discussed. In the 
major part of the article, typical pharmacoeconomic methods are explained and 
illustrated using examples derived from rheumatology: cost, cost-benefit 
analysis, cost-effectiveness analysis, cost-utility analysis, decision tree 
analysis, and Markov models. These methods are discussed in terms of strengths 
and weaknesses and their implications for medical practice.

PMID: 23078957 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


452. Lancet Oncol. 2012 Nov;13(11):1161-70. doi: 10.1016/S1470-2045(12)70412-6.
Epub  2012 Oct 16.

First-line erlotinib in patients with advanced non-small-cell lung cancer 
unsuitable for chemotherapy (TOPICAL): a double-blind, placebo-controlled, phase 
3 trial.

Lee SM(1), Khan I, Upadhyay S, Lewanski C, Falk S, Skailes G, Marshall E, Woll 
PJ, Hatton M, Lal R, Jones R, Toy E, Chao D, Middleton G, Bulley S, Ngai Y, Rudd 
R, Hackshaw A, Boshoff C.

Author information:
(1)University College London Cancer Institute and University College London 
Hospitals, London, UK. sm.lee@uclh.nhs.uk

Comment in
    Lancet Oncol. 2012 Nov;13(11):1074-6.

BACKGROUND: Many patients with advanced non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) 
receive only active supportive care because of poor performance status or 
presence of several comorbidities. We investigated whether erlotinib improves 
clinical outcome in these patients.
METHODS: TOPICAL was a double-blind, randomised, placebo-controlled, phase 3 
trial, done at 78 centres in the UK. Eligibility criteria were newly diagnosed, 
pathologically confirmed NSCLC; stage IIIb or IV; chemotherapy naive; no 
symptomatic brain metastases; deemed unsuitable for chemotherapy because of poor 
(≥2) Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status or presence of 
several comorbidities, or both; and estimated life expectancy of at least 8 
weeks. Patients were randomly assigned (by phone call, in a 1:1 ratio, 
stratified by disease stage, performance status, smoking history, and centre, 
block size 10) to receive oral placebo or erlotinib (150 mg per day) until 
disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Investigators, clinicians, and 
patients were masked to assignment. The primary endpoint was overall survival. 
Analyses were by intention to treat, and prespecified subgroup analyses included 
development of a rash due to erlotinib within 28 days of starting treatment. 
This study is registered, number ISRCTN 77383050.
FINDINGS: Between April 14, 2005, and April 1, 2009, we randomly assigned 350 
patients to receive erlotinib and 320 to receive placebo. We followed up 
patients until March 31, 2011. 657 patients died; median overall survival did 
not differ between groups (erlotinib, 3·7 months, 95% CI 3·2-4·2, vs placebo, 
3·6 months, 3·2-3·9; unadjusted hazard ratio [HR] 0·94, 95% CI 0·81-1·10, 
p=0·46). 59% (178 of 302) of patients assigned erlotinib and who were assessable 
at 1 month developed first-cycle rash, which was the only independent factor 
associated with overall survival. Patients with first-cycle rash had better 
overall survival (HR 0·76, 95% CI 0·63-0·92, p=0·0058), compared with placebo. 
Compared with placebo, overall survival seemed to be worse in the group that did 
not develop first-cycle rash (1·30, 1·05-1·61, p=0·017). Grade 3 or 4 diarrhoea 
was more common with erlotinib than placebo (8% [28 of 334] vs 1% [four of 313], 
p=0·0001), as was high-grade rash (23% [79 of 334] vs 2% [five of 313], 
p<0·0001); other adverse events were much the same between groups.
INTERPRETATION: Patients with NSCLC who are deemed unsuitable for chemotherapy 
could be given erlotinib. Patients who develop a first-cycle rash should 
continue to receive erlotinib, whereas those who do not have a rash after 28 
days should discontinue erlotinib, because of the possibility of decreased 
survival.
FUNDING: Cancer Research UK, Roche.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1470-2045(12)70412-6
PMCID: PMC3488187
PMID: 23078958 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


453. Eur J Public Health. 2012 Dec;22(6):751. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/cks137. Epub
2012  Oct 18.

From deep-fried Mars bars to neoliberal political attacks: explaining the 
Scottish mortality disadvantage.

Mackenbach JP.

Comment on
    Eur J Public Health. 2012 Dec;22(6):756-60.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/cks137
PMID: 23079280 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


454. Health Econ Policy Law. 2012 Oct;7(4):393-409. doi:
10.1017/S1744133112000205.

Evidence and values: paying for end-of-life drugs in the British NHS.

Chalkidou K(1).

Author information:
(1)NICE International, London, UK. Kalipso.Chalkidou@nice.org.uk

In January 2009, Britain's National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence 
(NICE), following a very public debate triggered by its decision, six months 
earlier, provisionally to rule against the adoption by the National Health 
Service (NHS) of an expensive drug for advanced renal cancer, introduced a new 
policy for evaluating pharmaceuticals for patients nearing the end of their 
lives. NICE's so-called end-of-life (EOL) guidance for its Committees 
effectively advises them to deviate from the Institute's threshold range and to 
value the lives of (mostly) dying cancer patients more than the lives of those 
suffering from other, potentially curable, chronic or acute conditions. This 
article tells the story of the EOL guidance. Through looking at specific EOL 
decisions between 2009 and 2011 and the reactions by stakeholders to these 
decisions and the policy itself, it discusses the triggers for NICE's EOL 
guidance, the challenges NICE faces in implementing it and the policy's putative 
implications for the future role of NICE in the NHS, especially in the context 
of value-based reforms in the pricing and evaluation of pharmaceuticals, 
currently under consideration.

DOI: 10.1017/S1744133112000205
PMID: 23079299 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


455. Health Econ Policy Law. 2012 Oct;7(4):431-9. doi: 10.1017/S1744133112000229.

Setting priorities in and for end-of-life care: challenges in the application of 
economic evaluation.
