Fertility life table provides a comprehensive description of arthropod 
population dynamics by the estimation of parameters about arthropod population 
growth potential. It can also clarify the sublethal effects of chemicals on 
insects. Ethacrynic acid (EA), an inhibitor of glutathione S-transferases, is a 
diuretic compound that has been confirmed to modulate drug resistance in 
organisms. In this study, the effects of EA on growth and development of 
Liposcelis bostrychophila Badonnel were investigated in the laboratory to 
explore the potential possibilities of EA as an active agent to manage 
insecticide-resistant psocids. The treatment of psocids was obtained by feeding 
on the routine diet containing 3% EA for three successive generations, and 
psocids on routine diet served as control. The results indicated that EA 
possessed some negative effects on the life-table parameters of the psocid in F1 
and F2 generations. The addition of EA to diet stunted psocids growth by 
lengthening development time and increasing mortality with a greater effect in 
the F2 generation. In the third generation of psocids on EA diet, it seemed 
there was a return to normal. Psocid fitness was influenced by addition of EA to 
standard diet. Using rm values, the fitness for EA diet in F1, F2, and F3 
compared with the counterpart of routine diet was calculated as 0.80, 0.74, and 
0.87, respectively.

© The Authors 2015. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of 
Entomological Society of America. All rights reserved. For Permissions, please 
email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/ee/nvv157
PMID: 26475825 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


96. Vet Rec. 2015 Oct 17;177(15):393. doi: 10.1136/vr.h4111.

Plasma derived colostrum and life expectancy in calves.

Dean R(1), Wareham K(1).

Author information:
(1)CEVM, University of Nottingham.

BestBETs for Vets are generated by the Centre for Evidence-based Veterinary 
Medicine at the University of Nottingham to help answer specific questions and 
assist in clinical decision making. Although evidence is often limited, they aim 
to find, present and draw conclusions from the best available evidence, using a 
standardised framework. A more detailed description of how BestBETs for Vets are 
produced was published in Veterinary Record earlier this year (VR, April 4, 
2015, vol 176, pp 354-356).

British Veterinary Association.

DOI: 10.1136/vr.h4111
PMID: 26475900 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. Biosens Bioelectron. 2016 Mar 15;77:557-64. doi: 10.1016/j.bios.2015.10.010. 
Epub 2015 Oct 8.

CdS/MoS2 heterojunction-based photoelectrochemical DNA biosensor via enhanced 
chemiluminescence excitation.

Zang Y(1), Lei J(2), Hao Q(1), Ju H(1).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Analytical Chemistry for Life Science, Collaborative 
Innovation Center of Chemistry for Life Sciences, School of Chemistry and 
Chemical Engineering, Nanjing University, Nanjing 210093, PR China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Analytical Chemistry for Life Science, Collaborative 
Innovation Center of Chemistry for Life Sciences, School of Chemistry and 
Chemical Engineering, Nanjing University, Nanjing 210093, PR China. Electronic 
address: jpl@nju.edu.cn.

This work developed a CdS/MoS2 heterojunction-based photoelectrochemical 
biosensor for sensitive detection of DNA under the enhanced chemiluminescence 
excitation of luminol catalyzed by hemin-DNA complex. The CdS/MoS2 photocathode 
was prepared by the stepwise assembly of MoS2 and CdS quantum dots (QDs) on 
indium tin oxide (ITO), and achieved about 280% increasing of photocurrent 
compared to pure CdS QDs electrode due to the formation of heterostructure. High 
photoconversion efficiency in the photoelectrochemical system was identified to 
be the rapid spatial charge separation of electron-hole pairs by the extension 
of electron transport time and electron lifetime. In the presence of target DNA, 
the catalytic hairpin assembly was triggered, and simultaneously the dual 
hemin-labeled DNA probe was introduced to capture DNA/CdS/MoS2 modified ITO 
electrode. Thus the chemiluminescence emission of luminol was enhanced via 
hemin-induced mimetic catalysis, leading to the physical light-free 
photoelectrochemical strategy. Under optimized conditions, the resulting 
photoelectrode was proportional to the logarithm of target DNA concentration in 
the range from 1 fM to 100 pM with a detection limit of 0.39 fM. Moreover, the 
cascade amplification biosensor demonstrated high selectivity, desirable 
stability and good reproducibility, showing great prospect in molecular 
diagnosis and bioanalysis.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bios.2015.10.010
PMID: 26476013 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


98. Sci Total Environ. 2016 Jan 15;542(Pt B):1062-77. doi: 
10.1016/j.scitotenv.2015.09.009. Epub 2015 Oct 23.

New insights into phosphorus management in agriculture--A crop rotation 
approach.

Łukowiak R(1), Grzebisz W(2), Sassenrath GF(3).

Author information:
(1)Poznan University Life Sciences, Chair of Agricultural Chemistry and 
Environmental Biogeochemistry, Wojska Polskiego 28, 60-625 Poznań, Poland. 
Electronic address: lukoviak@up.poznan.pl.
(2)Poznan University Life Sciences, Chair of Agricultural Chemistry and 
Environmental Biogeochemistry, Wojska Polskiego 28, 60-625 Poznań, Poland. 
Electronic address: witegr@up.poznan.pl.
(3)Southeast Research and Extension Center, Department of Agronomy, Kansas State 
University, Parsons, KS 67357 USA. Electronic address: gsassenrath@ksu.edu.

This manuscript presents research results examining phosphorus (P) management in 
a soil–plant system for three variables: i) internal resources of soil available 
phosphorus, ii) cropping sequence, and iii) external input of phosphorus 
(manure, fertilizers). The research was conducted in long-term cropping 
sequences with oilseed rape (10 rotations) and maize (six rotations) over three 
consecutive growing seasons (2004/2005, 2005/2006, and 2006/2007) in a 
production farm on soils originated from Albic Luvisols in Poland. The soil 
available phosphorus pool, measured as calcium chloride extractable P (CCE-P), 
constituted 28% to 67% of the total phosphorus input (PTI) to the soil–plant 
system in the spring. Oilseed rape and maize dominant cropping sequences showed 
a significant potential to utilize the CCE-P pool within the soil profile. 
Cropping sequences containing oilseed rape significantly affected the CCE-P 
pool, and in turn contributed to the P(TI). The P(TI) uptake use efficiency was 
50% on average. Therefore, the CCE-P pool should be taken into account as an 
important component of a sound and reliable phosphorus balance. The instability 
of the yield prediction, based on the P(TI), was mainly due to an imbalanced 
management of both farmyard manure and phosphorus fertilizer. Oilseed rape 
plants provide a significant positive impact on the CCE-P pool after harvest, 
improving the productive stability of the entire cropping sequence. This 
phenomenon was documented by the P(TI) increase during wheat cultivation 
following oilseed rape. The Unit Phosphorus Uptake index also showed a higher 
stability in oilseed rape cropping systems compared to rotations based on maize. 
Cropping sequences are a primary factor impacting phosphorus management. 
Judicious implementation of crop rotations can improve soil P resources, 
efficiency of crop P use, and crop yield and yield stability. Use of cropping 
sequences can reduce the need for external P sources such as farmyard manure and 
chemical fertilizers.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2015.09.009
PMID: 26476662


99. Lancet Oncol. 2015 Nov;16(15):1483-1492. doi: 10.1016/S1470-2045(15)00232-6. 
Epub 2015 Oct 22.

Cancer incidence in indigenous people in Australia, New Zealand, Canada, and the 
USA: a comparative population-based study.

Moore SP(1), Antoni S(2), Colquhoun A(3), Healy B(4), Ellison-Loschmann L(5), 
Potter JD(6), Garvey G(7), Bray F(2).

Author information:
(1)Section of Cancer Surveillance, International Agency for Research on Cancer, 
Lyon, France; Epidemiology and Health Services Division, Menzies School of 
Health Research, Charles Darwin University, Australia. Electronic address: 
suzanne.moore@menzies.edu.au.
(2)Section of Cancer Surveillance, International Agency for Research on Cancer, 
Lyon, France.
(3)Epidemiology and Surveillance, Alberta Ministry of Health, Edmonton, AB, 
Canada; School of Public Health, University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB, Canada.
(4)Alberta First Nations Information Governance Centre, Calgary, AB, Canada.
(5)Centre for Public Health Research, Massey University, Wellington, New 
Zealand.
(6)Centre for Public Health Research, Massey University, Wellington, New 
Zealand; Division of Public Health Sciences, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research 
Centre, Seattle, WA, USA; University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.
(7)Epidemiology and Health Services Division, Menzies School of Health Research, 
Charles Darwin University, Australia.

Comment in
    Lancet Oncol. 2015 Nov;16(15):1442-4.

INTRODUCTION: Indigenous people have disproportionally worse health and lower 
life expectancy than their non-indigenous counterparts in high-income countries. 
Cancer data for indigenous people are scarce and incidence has not previously 
been collectively reported in Australia, New Zealand, Canada, and the USA. We 
aimed to investigate and compare, for the first time, the cancer burden in 
indigenous populations in these countries.
METHODS: We derived incidence data from population-based cancer registries in 
three states of Australia (Queensland, Western Australia, and the Northern 
Territory), New Zealand, the province of Alberta in Canada, and the Contract 
Health Service Delivery Areas of the USA. Summary rates for First Nations and 
Inuit in Alberta, Canada, were provided directly by Alberta Health Services. We 
compared age-standardised rates by registry, sex, cancer site, and ethnicity for 
all incident cancer cases, excluding non-melanoma skin cancers, diagnosed 
between 2002 and 2006. Standardised rate ratios (SRRs) and 95% CIs were computed 
to compare the indigenous and non-indigenous populations of each jurisdiction, 
except for the Alaska Native population, which was compared with the white 
population from the USA.
FINDINGS: We included 24 815 cases of cancer in indigenous people and 5 685 264 
in non-indigenous people from all jurisdictions, not including Alberta, Canada. 
The overall cancer burden in indigenous populations was substantially lower in 
the USA except in Alaska, similar or slightly lower in Australia and Canada, and 
higher in New Zealand compared with their non-indigenous counterparts. Among the 
most commonly occurring cancers in indigenous men were lung, prostate, and 
colorectal cancer. In most jurisdictions, breast cancer was the most common 
cancer in women followed by lung and colorectal cancer. The incidence of lung 
cancer was higher in indigenous men in all Australian regions, in Alberta, and 
in US Alaska Natives than in their non-indigenous counterparts. For breast 
cancer, rates in women were lower in all indigenous populations except in New 
Zealand (SRR 1·23, CI 95% 1·16-1·32) and Alaska (1·14, 1·01-1·30). Incidence of 
cervical cancer was higher in indigenous women than in non-indigenous women in 
most jurisdictions, although the difference was not always statistically 
significant.
INTERPRETATION: There are clear differences in the scale and profile of cancer 
in indigenous and non-indigenous populations in Australia, New Zealand, Canada, 
and the USA. Our findings highlight the need for much-improved, targeted 
programmes of screening, vaccination, and smoking cessation, among other 
prevention strategies. Governments and researchers need to work in partnership 
with indigenous communities to improve cancer surveillance in all jurisdictions 
and facilitate access to cancer data.
FUNDING: International Agency for Research on Cancer-Australia Fellowship.

Copyright © 2015 International Agency for Research on Cancer. Published by 
Elsevier Ltd/Inc/BV. All rights reserved. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1470-2045(15)00232-6
PMID: 26476758 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


100. Eval Program Plann. 2016 Feb;54:19-29. doi:
10.1016/j.evalprogplan.2015.10.002.  Epub 2015 Oct 8.

The power of a collaborative relationship between technical assistance providers 
and community prevention teams: A correlational and longitudinal study.

Chilenski SM(1), Perkins DF(2), Olson J(3), Hoffman L(4), Feinberg ME(5), 
Greenberg M(5), Welsh J(5), Crowley DM(6), Spoth R(7).

Author information:
(1)Prevention Research Center, The Pennsylvania State University, United States; 
The Clearinghouse for Military Family Readiness, The Pennsylvania State 
University, United States. Electronic address: sem268@psu.edu.
(2)The Clearinghouse for Military Family Readiness, and the Department of 
Agricultural Economics, Sociology, and Education, The Pennsylvania State 
University, United States.
(3)The Clearinghouse for Military Family Readiness, The Pennsylvania State 
University, United States.
(4)Schiefelbusch Institute for Life Span Studies, University of Kansas, United 
States.
(5)Prevention Research Center, The Pennsylvania State University, United States.
(6)Prevention Research Center, The Pennsylvania State University, United States; 
Human Development and Family Studies, The Pennsylvania State University, United 
States.
(7)Partnerships in Prevention Science Institute, Iowa State University, United 
States.

BACKGROUND: Historically, effectiveness of community collaborative prevention 
efforts has been mixed. Consequently, research has been undertaken to better 
understand the factors that support their effectiveness; theory and some related 
empirical research suggests that the provision of technical assistance is one 
important supporting factor. The current study examines one aspect of technical 
assistance that may be important in supporting coalition effectiveness, the 
collaborative relationship between the technical assistance provider and site 
lead implementer.
METHODS: Four and one-half years of data were collected from technical 
assistance providers and prevention team members from the 14 community 
prevention teams involved in the PROSPER project.
RESULTS: Spearman correlation analyses with longitudinal data show that the 
levels of the collaborative relationship during one phase of collaborative team 
functioning associated with characteristics of internal team functioning in 
future phases.
CONCLUSIONS: Results suggest that community collaborative prevention work should 
consider the collaborative nature of the technical assistance provider - 
prevention community team relationship when designing and conducting technical 
assistance activities, and it may be important to continually assess these 
dynamics to support high quality implementation.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.evalprogplan.2015.10.002
PMCID: PMC4666771
PMID: 26476860 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


101. Med Decis Making. 2016 Apr;36(3):375-90. doi: 10.1177/0272989X15604158. Epub
 2015 Oct 16.

Lessons Learned from a Cross-Model Validation between a Discrete Event 
Simulation Model and a Cohort State-Transition Model for Personalized Breast 
Cancer Treatment.

Jahn B(1)(2), Rochau U(1)(2), Kurzthaler C(1)(2), Paulden M(3)(4), Kluibenschädl 
M(1)(2)(3), Arvandi M(1), Kühne F(1)(2), Goehler A(1)(5)(6)(7), Krahn MD(1)(2), 
Siebert U(1)(2)(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Public Health, Medical Decision Making and Health Technology 
Assessment, Department of Public Health and Health Technology Assessment, 
UMIT-University for Health Sciences, Medical Informatics and Technology, Hall 
i.T., Austria (BJ, UR, CK, MK, MA, MS, FK, AG, US)
(2)Division of Public Health Decision Modelling, Health Technology Assessment 
and Health Economics, ONCOTYROL-Center for Personalized Cancer Medicine, 
Innsbruck, Austria (BJ, UR, CK, MK, MS, FK, US)
(3)Toronto Health Economics and Technology Assessment (THETA) Collaborative, 
University of Toronto, ON, Canada (MP, MK)
(4)Department of Emergency Medicine; University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB, Canada 
(MP)
(5)Department of Radiology, Yale University, New Haven, CT, USA (AG)
(6)Institute for Technology Assessment, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, MA USA (AG)
(7)Alfried Krupp von Bohlen und Halbach Foundation-Institute for Health Systems 
Management, University of Duisburg-Essen, Essen, Germany (AG)
(8)Center for Health Decision Science, Department of Health Policy and 
Management, Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, MA, USA (US)
(9)Institute for Technology Assessment and Department of Radiology, 
Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA (US)

OBJECTIVES: Breast cancer is the most common malignancy among women in developed 
countries. We developed a model (the Oncotyrol breast cancer outcomes model) to 
evaluate the cost-effectiveness of a 21-gene assay when used in combination with 
Adjuvant! Online to support personalized decisions about the use of adjuvant 
chemotherapy. The goal of this study was to perform a cross-model validation.
METHODS: The Oncotyrol model evaluates the 21-gene assay by simulating a 
hypothetical cohort of 50-year-old women over a lifetime horizon using discrete 
event simulation. Primary model outcomes were life-years, quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs), costs, and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs). We 
followed the International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research-Society for Medical Decision Making (ISPOR-SMDM) best practice 
recommendations for validation and compared modeling results of the Oncotyrol 
model with the state-transition model developed by the Toronto Health Economics 
and Technology Assessment (THETA) Collaborative. Both models were populated with 
Canadian THETA model parameters, and outputs were compared.
RESULTS: The differences between the models varied among the different 
validation end points. The smallest relative differences were in costs, and the 
greatest were in QALYs. All relative differences were less than 1.2%. The 
cost-effectiveness plane showed that small differences in the model structure 
can lead to different sets of nondominated test-treatment strategies with 
different efficiency frontiers. We faced several challenges: distinguishing 
between differences in outcomes due to different modeling techniques and initial 
coding errors, defining meaningful differences, and selecting measures and 
statistics for comparison (means, distributions, multivariate outcomes).
CONCLUSIONS: Cross-model validation was crucial to identify and correct coding 
errors and to explain differences in model outcomes. In our comparison, small 
differences in either QALYs or costs led to changes in ICERs because of changes 
in the set of dominated and nondominated strategies.

© The Author(s) 2015.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X15604158
PMID: 26476865 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


102. Clin Ther. 2015 Nov 1;37(11):2476-2488.e27. doi: 
10.1016/j.clinthera.2015.09.005. Epub 2015 Oct 23.

Cost-effectiveness of Apixaban Compared With Edoxaban for Stroke Prevention in 
Nonvalvular Atrial Fibrillation.

Lip GY(1), Lanitis T(2), Kongnakorn T(3), Phatak H(4), Chalkiadaki C(5), Liu 
X(6), Kuznik A(7), Lawrence J(4), Dorian P(8).

Author information:
(1)University of Birmingham, Centre for Cardiovascular Sciences, City Hospital, 
Birmingham, United Kingdom; Aalborg Thrombosis Research Unit, Department of 
Clinical Medicine, Aalborg University, Aalborg, Denmark.
(2)Evidera, London, United Kingdom. Electronic address: 
Tereza.Lanitis@evidera.com.
(3)Evidera, Bangkok, Thailand.
(4)Bristol-Myers Squibb, Lawrence Township, New Jersey.
(5)Evidera, London, United Kingdom.
(6)Pfizer, New York, New York; University of Tennessee College of Pharmacy, 
Memphis, Tennessee.
(7)Pfizer, New York, New York.
(8)University of Toronto, St. Michael's Hospital, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this analysis was to assess the cost-effectiveness of 
apixaban 5 mg BID versus high- and low-dose edoxaban (60 mg and 30 mg once 
daily) as intended starting dose strategies for stroke prevention in patients 
from a UK National Health Service perspective.
METHODS: A previously developed and validated Markov model was adapted to 
evaluate the lifetime clinical and economic impact of apixaban 5 mg BID versus 
edoxaban (high and low dose) in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation. A 
pairwise indirect treatment comparison was conducted for clinical end points, 
and price parity was assumed between apixaban and edoxaban. Costs in 2012 
British pounds, life-years, and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) gained, 
discounted at 3.5% per annum, were estimated.
FINDINGS: Apixaban was predicted to increase life expectancy and QALYs versus 
low- and high-dose edoxaban. These gains were achieved at cost-savings versus 
low-dose edoxaban, thus being dominant and nominal increases in costs versus 
high-dose edoxaban. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of apixaban versus 
high-dose edoxaban was £6763 per QALY gained.
IMPLICATIONS: Apixaban was deemed to be dominant (less costly and more 
effective) versus low-dose edoxaban and a cost-effective alternative to 
high-dose edoxaban.

Copyright © 2015 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2015.09.005
PMID: 26477648 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


103. Anatol J Cardiol. 2015 Oct;15(10):843-7. doi:
10.5152/AnatolJCardiol.2015.6447.

Surgical and transcatheter management alternatives in refractory pulmonary 
hypertension: Potts shunt.

Kula S(1), Atasayan V.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Cardiology, Faculty of Medicine, Gazi University; 
Ankara-Turkey. serdarkula@gmail.com.

Despite advances in the medical treatment of children with pulmonary arterial 
hypertension that have resulted in improved health quality and life expectancy, 
the progression of the disease is still the main problem for some patients. 
Because of this undesirable condition, the search for new treatment strategies 
continues for pediatric cardiologists. At this point, the Eisenmenger physiology 
is the main target because of the long-life expectancy and more stable 
hemodynamics of patients with Eisenmenger syndrome. Therefore, some invasive 
procedures may be used for conversion to Eisenmenger physiology with the aim of 
decompressing the right ventricle.

DOI: 10.5152/AnatolJCardiol.2015.6447
PMCID: PMC5336972
PMID: 26477721 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


104. Am J Prev Med. 2015 Nov;49(5):772-783. doi: 10.1016/j.amepre.2015.04.003.

Economics of Team-based Care in Controlling Blood Pressure: A Community Guide 
Systematic Review.

Jacob V(1), Chattopadhyay SK(2), Thota AB(2), Proia KK(2), Njie G(2), Hopkins 
DP(2), Finnie RKC(2), Pronk NP(3), Kottke TE(3); Community Preventive Services 
Task Force.

Author information:
(1)The Community Guide Branch, Division of Public Health Information 
Dissemination Center for Surveillance, Epidemiology, and Laboratory Services, 
CDC, Atlanta, Georgia. Electronic address: hir0@cdc.gov.
(2)The Community Guide Branch, Division of Public Health Information 
Dissemination Center for Surveillance, Epidemiology, and Laboratory Services, 
CDC, Atlanta, Georgia.
(3)HealthPartners, Minneapolis, Minnesota.

CONTEXT: High blood pressure is an important risk factor for cardiovascular 
disease and stroke, the leading cause of death in the U.S., and a substantial 
national burden through lost productivity and medical care. A recent Community 
Guide systematic review found strong evidence of effectiveness of team-based 
care in improving blood pressure control. The objective of the present review is 
to determine from the economic literature whether team-based care for blood 
pressure control is cost beneficial or cost effective.
EVIDENCE ACQUISITION: Electronic databases of papers published January 1980-May 
2012 were searched to find economic evaluations of team-based care interventions 
to improve blood pressure outcomes, yielding 31 studies for inclusion.
EVIDENCE SYNTHESIS: In analyses conducted in 2012, intervention cost, healthcare 
cost averted, benefit-to-cost ratios, and cost effectiveness were abstracted 
from the studies. The quality of estimates for intervention and healthcare cost 
from each study were assessed using three elements: intervention focus on blood 
pressure control, incremental estimates in the intervention group relative to a 
control group, and inclusion of major cost-driving elements in estimates. 
Intervention cost per unit reduction in systolic blood pressure was converted to 
lifetime intervention cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) saved using 
algorithms from published trials.
CONCLUSIONS: Team-based care to improve blood pressure control is cost effective 
based on evidence that 26 of 28 estimates of $/QALY gained from ten studies were 
below a conservative threshold of $50,000. This finding is salient to recent 
U.S. healthcare reforms and coordinated patient-centered care through formation 
of Accountable Care Organizations.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amepre.2015.04.003
PMCID: PMC4685935
PMID: 26477804 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No author has any conflict of interest or 
financial disclosure.


105. Mater Sci Eng C Mater Biol Appl. 2016 Jan 1;58:420-31. doi: 
10.1016/j.msec.2015.08.053. Epub 2015 Sep 1.

Synthesis and characterization of Ti-Ta-Nb-Mn foams.

Aguilar C(1), Guerra C(2), Lascano S(3), Guzman D(4), Rojas PA(5), Thirumurugan 
M(2), Bejar L(6), Medina A(6).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Ingeniería Metalúrgica y Materiales, Universidad Técnica 
Federico Santa María, Av. España 1680, Valparaíso, Chile. Electronic address: 
claudio.aguilar@usm.cl.
(2)Departamento de Ingeniería Metalúrgica y Materiales, Universidad Técnica 
Federico Santa María, Av. España 1680, Valparaíso, Chile.
(3)Departamento de Ingeniería Mecánica, Universidad Técnica Federico Santa 
María, Av. España 1680, Valparaíso, Chile.
(4)Departamento de Metalurgia, Universidad de Atacama, Av. Copayapu 485, 
Copiapó, Chile.
(5)Escuela de Ingeniería Mecánica, Facultad de Ingeniería, Pontificia 
Universidad Católica de Valparaíso, Av. Los Carrera, 01567 Quilpué, Chile.
(6)Universidad Michoacana de San Nicolás de Hidalgo, Ciudad Universitaria, 
Morelia, Michoacán, Mexico.

The unprecedented increase in human life expectancy have produced profound 
changes in the prevailing patterns of disease, like the observed increased in 
degenerative disc diseases, which cause degradation of the bones. Ti-Nb-Ta 
alloys are promising materials to replace the damaged bone due to their 
excellent mechanical and corrosion resistance properties. In general metallic 
foams are widely used for medical application due to their lower elastic moduli 
compare to bulk materials. In this work we studied the synthesis of 
34Nb-29Ta-xMn (x: 2, 4 and 6 wt.% Mn) alloy foams (50% v/v) using ammonium 
hydrogen carbonate as a space holder. Alloys were produced through mechanical 
alloying in a planetary mill for 50h. Green compacts were obtained by applying 
430 MPa pressure. To remove the space holder from the matrix the green compacts 
were heated to 180 °C for 1.5h and after sintered at 1300 °C for 3h. Foams were 
characterized by x-ray diffraction, scanning, transmission electron microscopy 
and optical microscopy. The elastic modulus of the foam was measured as ~30 GPa, 
and the values are almost equal to the values predicted using various 
theoretical models.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.msec.2015.08.053
PMID: 26478329 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


106. Bull World Health Organ. 2015 Aug 1;93(8):540-549C. doi:
10.2471/BLT.14.148056.  Epub 2015 Jun 1.

Estimating the burden of foodborne diseases in Japan.

Kumagai Y(1), Gilmour S(2), Ota E(3), Momose Y(4), Onishi T(5), Bilano VL(2), 
Kasuga F(4), Sekizaki T(6), Shibuya K(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterinary Medical Science, University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan .
(2)Department of Global Health Policy, Graduate School of Medicine, University 
of Tokyo, 7-3-1, Hongo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-0033, Japan .
(3)Department of Health Policy, National Centre for Child Health and 
Development, Tokyo, Japan .
(4)National Institute of Health Sciences, Tokyo, Japan .
(5)Faculty of Economics, Kyushu University, Fukuoka, Japan .
(6)Research Centre for Food Safety, University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan .

Erratum in
    Bull World Health Organ. 2015 Oct 1;93(10):740.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the burden posed by foodborne diseases in Japan using 
methods developed by the World Health Organization's Foodborne Disease Burden 
Epidemiology Reference Group (FERG).
METHODS: Expert consultation and statistics on food poisoning during 2011 were 
used to identify three common causes of foodborne disease in Japan: 
Campylobacter and Salmonella species and enterohaemorrhagic Escherichia coli 
(EHEC). We conducted systematic reviews of English and Japanese literature on 
the complications caused by these pathogens, by searching Embase, the Japan 
medical society abstract database and Medline. We estimated the annual incidence 
of acute gastroenteritis from reported surveillance data, based on estimated 
probabilities that an affected person would visit a physician and have 
gastroenteritis confirmed. We then calculated disability-adjusted life-years 
(DALYs) lost in 2011, using the incidence estimates along with disability 
weights derived from published studies.
FINDINGS: In 2011, foodborne disease caused by Campylobacter species, Salmonella 
species and EHEC led to an estimated loss of 6099, 3145 and 463 DALYs in Japan, 
respectively. These estimated burdens are based on the pyramid reconstruction 
method; are largely due to morbidity rather than mortality; and are much higher 
than those indicated by routine surveillance data.
CONCLUSION: Routine surveillance data may indicate foodborne disease burdens 
that are much lower than the true values. Most of the burden posed by foodborne 
disease in Japan comes from secondary complications. The tools developed by FERG 
appear useful in estimating disease burdens and setting priorities in the field 
of food safety.

Publisher: OBJECTIF: Évaluer la charge des maladies d'origine alimentaire au 
Japon, à l'aide de méthodes développées par le Groupe de travail de référence de 
l'OMS sur l’épidémiologie des maladies d’origine alimentaire (FERG).
MÉTHODES: Des avis d'experts et des statistiques sur les intoxications 
alimentaires pour l'année 2011 ont été utilisés pour identifier les trois 
principales causes des maladies d'origine alimentaire au Japon : à savoir les 
espèces Campylobacter, Salmonella et Escherichia coli entérohémorragique (ECEH). 
Nous avons procédé à des revues systématiques de la littérature anglaise et 
japonaise sur les complications causées par ces agents pathogènes, en faisant 
des recherches dans Embase (base de données bibliographiques de la société 
médicale du Japon) et Medline. Nous avons évalué l'incidence annuelle de la 
gastro-entérite aiguë à partir des données de surveillance disponibles, sur la 
base des probabilités estimées qu'une personne affectée ira consulter un médecin 
et sera diagnostiquée comme souffrant de gastro-entérite. Nous avons ensuite 
calculé les AVCI (années de vie corrigées du facteur incapacité) perdues en 
2011, en utilisant les évaluations d'incidence ainsi que les coefficients de 
pondération de l'incapacité tirés des études publiées.
RÉSULTATS: En 2011, au Japon, les maladies d'origine alimentaire causées par les 
espèces Campylobacter, Salmonella et ECEH ont respectivement entraîné une perte 
estimée à 6 099, 3 145 et 463 AVCI. Ces charges estimées sont fondées sur la 
méthode de reconstruction de la pyramide de surveillance. Elles sont largement 
liées à la morbidité -plutôt qu'à la mortalité- et sont très supérieures à 
celles indiquées par les données de surveillance de routine.
CONCLUSION: Il est possible que les données de surveillance de routine reflètent 
des chiffres largement inférieurs à la réalité. La charge des maladies d'origine 
alimentaire au Japon est principalement liée à leurs complications secondaires. 
Les outils développés par le FERG semblent être utiles pour évaluer les charges 
des maladies et définir les priorités en matière de sécurité sanitaire des 
aliments.

Publisher: OBJETIVO: Evaluar la carga que plantean las enfermedades de 
transmisión alimentaria en Japón mediante la utilización de métodos 
desarrollados por el Grupo de Referencia sobre Epidemiología de la Carga de 
Enfermedades de Transmisión Alimentaria (FERG) de la Organización Mundial de la 
Salud.
MÉTODOS: Se utilizaron consultas de expertos y estadísticas en intoxicación 
alimentaria durante 2011 para identificar tres causas comunes en las 
enfermedades de transmisión alimentaria en Japón: las bacterias Campylobacter, 
Salmonella y E. coli enterohemorrágica (EHEC). Se llevaron a cabo revisiones 
sistemáticas de bibliografía inglesa y japonesa sobre las complicaciones 
causadas por estos patógenos buscando en Embase, la base de datos de la sociedad 
médica japonesa, y Medline. Se estimó la incidencia anual de gastroenteritis 
aguda de los datos de vigilancia informados, en base a probabilidades estimadas 
de que una persona afectada acudiría a un médico y se le confirmaría la 
gastroenteritis. Entonces se calcularon los años de vida ajustados en función de 
la discapacidad (AVAD) perdidos en 2011, utilizando los cálculos de incidencia 
junto con los pesos de la discapacidad derivados de estudios publicados.
RESULTADOS: En 2011, las enfermedades de transmisión alimentaria causadas por 
las bacterias Campylobacter, Salmonella y EHEC condujeron a una pérdida de 
6.099, 3.145 y 363 AVAD, respectivamente. Estas cargas estimadas están basadas 
en el método de reconstrucción de la pirámide de vigilancia, se deben en gran 
parte a la morbilidad más que a la mortalidad y son mucho más altas que aquellas 
indicadas por los datos obtenidos a partir de la vigilancia rutinaria.
CONCLUSIÓN: Los datos de la vigilancia rutinaria pueden indicar que las cargas 
de enfermedades de transmisión alimentaria son mucho más bajas que los valores 
reales. La mayoría de la carga que plantean las enfermedades de transmisión 
alimentaria en Japón proviene de complicaciones secundarias. Las herramientas 
desarrolladas por el FERG parecen útiles a la hora de estimar las cargas de 
enfermedades y de configurar prioridades en el área de la seguridad alimentaria.

Publisher: الغرض: تقييم العبء الذي يفرضه المرض المنقول عن طريق الغذاء في اليابان 
باستخدام الطرائق التي وضعها الفريق المرجعي المعني بالوبائيات المتعلقة بعبء 
الأمراض المنقولة عن طريق الغذاء (FERG) التابع لمنظمة الصحة العالمية.
الطريقة: تمت الاستعانة بمشورة الخبراء والإحصائيات المتعلقة بالتسمم الغذائي خلال 
عام 2011 لتحديد ثلاثة أسباب شائعة للإصابة بالمرض المنقول عن طريق الغذاء في 
اليابان: أنواع بكتريا الكامبيلوباكتر و السالمونيلا و الإشريكية القولونية المعوية 
النزفية (EHEC). وأجرينا مراجعات منهجية للكتابات الصادرة باللغتين الإنجليزية 
واليابانية التي تتناول المضاعفات الناتجة عن مسببات الأمراض المذكورة، وذلك عن 
طريق البحث في قاعدة معطيات Embase، وقاعدة معطيات ملخصات المنشورات التابعة 
للجمعية الطبية اليابانية، وقاعدة معطيات Medline. وأجرينا تقديرًا لنسبة حالات 
الإصابة بالتهاب المعدة والأمعاء الحاد سنويًا من خلال بيانات الرصد التي تم 
الإبلاغ عنها، وذلك بناءً على الاحتمالات التقديرية التي تفترض زيارة الشخص المصاب 
للطبيب والتأكد من إصابته بالتهاب المعدة والأمعاء. ومن ثم احتسبنا الخسارة التي 
تشير إليها سنوات العمر المصححة باحتساب مدد العجز (DALYs) في عام 2011، وذلك 
باستخدام تقديرات حالات الإصابة بالإضافة إلى نتائج مقياس العجز المستمدة من 
الدراسات المنشورة.
النتائج: أدت الإصابة بالمرض المنقول عن طريق الغذاء والناتج عن وجود أنواع بكتريا 
الكامبيلوباكتر و السالمونيلا و EHEC إلى خسارة 6099، و3145، و463 عامًا بالرجوع 
إلى DALYs على التوالي. وتعتمد الأعباء المقدَّرة على طريقة إعادة الهيكلة الهرمية 
للرصد، وتعود إلى حد كبير إلى الاعتلال بدلاً من الوفيات، كما ترتفع نسبتها إلى حد 
بعيد عن تلك التي أشارت إليها بيانات الرصد الروتيني.
الاستنتاج: قد تشير بيانات الرصد الروتيني إلى الانخفاض الشديد في معدلات الإصابة 
بالمرض المنقول عن طريق الغذاء مقارنةً بالقيم الحقيقية. وينشأ الجزء الأعظم من 
العبء الذي يفرضه المرض المنقول عن طريق الغذاء في اليابان عن مضاعفات ثانوية. 
وتبدو الأدوات التي وضعها FERG مفيدة لتقدير أعباء المرض ووضع أولويات في مجال 
سلامة الأغذية.

Publisher: 目的: 旨在使用世界卫生组织食源性疾病负担流行病学参考组 (FERG) 制定的方法，评估日本食源性疾病所带来的负担。.
方法: 
利用 2011 年有关食品中毒的专家会诊和统计数据，确定日本食源性疾病的三种常见致因：弯曲杆菌和沙门氏病菌和肠出血性大肠杆菌 (EHEC)。我们通过搜索 Embase、日本医学社会摘要数据库和 Medline，系统查看了有关这些病原体所导致的并发症的英文和日文文献。我们依据估计感染者前去就诊并确诊患有肠胃炎的概率，利用报告的监测数据估算出每年急性肠胃炎的发病率。然后，我们基于来自公布数据的发病率估测值以及伤残权重，计算出 2011 年损失的伤残调整寿命年 (DALY)。.
结果: 
2011 年，因弯曲杆菌和沙门氏病菌和 EHEC 引发的食源性疾病导致分别估计损失 6099、3145 和 463 DALY。依据金字塔重构方法，大多基于发病率而非死亡率估算出负担，其远远超出常规监测数据指示的数值。.
结论: 
常规监测数据指示的食源性疾病负担可能远远低于真实数值。日本食源性疾病带来的大多数负担源于继发性并发症。FERG 开发的工具有助于估算疾病负担及确定食品安全领域的优先事项。.

Publisher: ЦЕЛЬ: Оценка бремени болезней пищевого происхождения в Японии с 
применением методов, разработанных Справочной группой Всемирной организации 
здравоохранения по эпидемиологии бремени болезней пищевого происхождения (FERG).
МЕТОДЫ: С помощью экспертных консультаций и статистических данных по пищевым 
отравлениям за 2011 год были определены три основные причины болезней пищевого 
происхождения в Японии: бактерии Campylobacter и Salmonella, а также 
энтерогеморрагический штамм кишечной палочки Escherichia coli (EHEC). Был 
проведен систематический обзор английской и японской литературы по осложнениям, 
вызванным данными патогенными микроорганизмами, которая была найдена в базах 
данных Embase, Medline и реферативной базе данных публикаций медицинского 
сообщества Японии. Оценивался уровень ежегодной заболеваемости острым 
гастроэнтеритом по данным эпиднадзора. Для его оценки использовалась расчетная 
вероятность того, что заболевшие придут к врачу и врач поставит диагноз 
«гастроэнтерит». Затем рассчитывалось количество лет жизни, утраченных в связи с 
болезнью (DALY) в 2011 году. Для этого использовалась оценка количества случаев 
заболевания и весовые коэффициенты для нетрудоспособности, полученные из 
опубликованных исследований.
РЕЗУЛЬТАТЫ: В 2011 году болезни пищевого происхождения, вызванные бактериями 
Campylobacter, Salmonella и EHEC, привели к потере 6099, 3145 и 463 лет жизни, 
утраченных в связи с болезнью, соответственно. Выявленное бремя болезней, 
рассчитанное путем реконструкции пирамиды наблюдений, в большей степени связано 
с заболеваемостью, а не со смертностью. Оно оказалось намного выше показателей, 
полученных в результате обычного эпиднадзора.
ВЫВОД: Данные обычного эпиднадзора могут свидетельствовать о бремени болезней 
пищевого происхождения, которое намного ниже его истинных значений. Большая 
часть бремени болезней пищевого происхождения в Японии приходится на вторичные 
осложнения. Методы, разработанные FERG, оказались эффективными для оценки 
бремени болезней и определения приоритетов в сфере безопасности пищевых 
продуктов.

DOI: 10.2471/BLT.14.148056
PMCID: PMC4581658
PMID: 26478611 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


107. Bull World Health Organ. 2015 Sep 1;93(9):614-22. doi:
10.2471/BLT.14.150516.  Epub 2015 Jun 23.

Eliminating artificial trans fatty acids in Argentina: estimated effects on the 
burden of coronary heart disease and costs.

Rubinstein A(1), Elorriaga N(1), Garay OU(1), Poggio R(1), Caporale J(1), Matta 
MG(1), Augustovski F(1), Pichon-Riviere A(1), Mozaffarian D(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Clinical Effectiveness and Health Policy (IECS), Ravignani 
2024, Buenos Aires, C1414CPV, Argentina .
(2)Friedman School of Nutrition Science and Policy, Tufts University, Boston, 
United States of America .

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the impact of Argentine policies to reduce trans fatty 
acids (TFA) on coronary heart disease (CHD), disability-adjusted life years 
(DALYs) and associated health-care costs.
METHODS: We estimated the baseline intake of TFA before 2004 to be 1.5% of total 
energy intake. We built a policy model including baseline intake of TFA, the 
oils and fats used to replace artificial TFAs, the clinical effect of reducing 
artificial TFAs and the costs and DALYs saved due to averted CHD events. To 
calculate the percentage of reduction of CHD, we calculated CHD risks on a 
population-based sample before and after implementation. The effect of the 
policies was modelled in three ways, based on projected changes: (i) in plasma 
lipid profiles; (ii) in lipid and inflammatory biomarkers; and (iii) the results 
of prospective cohort studies. We also estimated the present economic value of 
DALYs and associated health-care costs of coronary heart disease averted.
FINDINGS: We estimated that projected changes in lipid profile would avert 301 
deaths, 1066 acute CHD events, 5237 DALYs and 17 million United States dollars 
(US$) in health-care costs annually. Based on the adverse effects of TFA intake 
reported in prospective cohort studies, 1517 deaths, 5373 acute CHD events, 
26 394 DALYs and US$ 87 million would be averted annually.
CONCLUSION: Even under the most conservative scenario, reduction of TFA intake 
had a substantial effect on public health. These findings will help inform 
decision-makers in Argentina and other countries on the potential public health 
and economic impact of this policy.

Publisher: OBJECTIF: Estimer l'impact des politiques argentines de réduction des 
acides gras trans (AGT) sur les cardiopathies coronariennes (CC), les années de 
vie corrigées du facteur incapacité (AVCI) et les coûts des soins de santé 
associés.
MÉTHODES: Nous sommes partis d'une estimation de l'apport de référence en AGT 
avant 2004 représentant 1,5% de l'apport énergétique total. Nous avons conçu un 
modèle pour ces politiques, en intégrant cet apport en AGT de référence, les 
huiles et graisses utilisées pour remplacer les AGT artificiels, les effets 
cliniques de la réduction des AGT artificiels, les coûts associés ainsi que les 
AVCI épargnées du fait des accidents coronariens évités. Pour calculer le 
pourcentage de réduction des CC, nous avons calculé les risques de CC sur un 
échantillon en population, avant et après la mise en œuvre de ces politiques. 
Les effets de ces politiques ont été modélisés de trois manières, en fonction 
des changements projetés: (i) au niveau des profils lipidiques plasmatiques; 
(ii) au niveau des biomarqueurs lipidiques et inflammatoires et (iii) en 
fonction des résultats des études prospectives de cohortes. Nous avons également 
estimé la valeur économique actuelle des AVCI et du coût des soins de santé 
associés correspondant aux cardiopathies coronariennes évitées.
RÉSULTATS: Selon nos estimations, les changements projetés des profils 
lipidiques devraient permettre d'éviter 301 décès, 1 066 accidents coronariens 
aigus, 5 237 AVCI et 17 millions de dollars des États-Unis d'Amérique ($US) de 
dépenses annuelles en soins de santé. À partir des effets défavorables des 
apports en AGT indiqués dans les études prospectives de cohortes, ce sont 1 517 
décès, 5 373 accidents coronariens aigus, 26 394 AVCI et 87 millions de $US de 
dépenses qui pourraient être évités chaque année.
CONCLUSION: Même dans le scénario le plus prudent, la réduction de l'apport en 
AGT a un effet considérable sur la santé publique. Ces résultats permettront 
d'informer les décideurs en Argentine et dans d'autres pays sur les impacts 
potentiels de ce type de politiques sur le plan économique et en termes de santé 
publique.

Publisher: OBJETIVO: Estimar el impacto de las políticas argentinas para la 
reducción de los ácidos grasos de tipo trans (AGT) en las cardiopatías 
coronarias, los años de vida ajustados en función de la discapacidad (AVAD) y 
los costes de la atención sanitaria asociados.
MÉTODOS: Se estimó que la ingesta base de AGT antes de 2004 era de 1,5% de la 
ingesta de energía total. Se construyó un modelo de política que incluía la 
ingesta base de AGT, los aceites y grasas utilizados para reemplazar los AGT 
artificiales, el efecto clínico de reducir los AGT artificiales y el coste y los 
AVAD salvados debido a los casos de cardiopatías coronarias evitadas. Para 
calcular el porcentaje de reducción de cardiopatías coronarias, se calcularon 
los riesgos de cardiopatías coronarias en un modelo basado en la población antes 
y después de la implementación. El efecto de las políticas fue modelado de tres 
formas, en base a cambios estimados: (i) perfiles de plasma de lípidos; (ii) 
marcados biológicos inflamatorios de lípidos; y (iii) los resultados de estudios 
de cohortes prospectivos. También se estimó el valor económico actual de los 
AVAD y los costes de atención sanitaria asociados a las cardiopatías coronarias 
evitadas.
RESULTADOS: Se estimó que los cambios estimados en el perfil de lípidos 
evitarían 301 muertes, 1.066 casos graves de cardiopatías coronarias, 5.237 AVAD 
y 17 millones de dólares estadounidenses (USD) en atención sanitaria cada año. 
Basándose en los efectos adversos del consumo de AGT de los estudios de cohortes 
prospectivos, se evitarían 1.517 muertes, 5.373 casos graves de cardiopatías 
coronarias, 26.394 AVAD y 87 millones de USD cada año.
CONCLUSIÓN: Incluso bajo el escenario más conservador, la reducción del consumo 
de AGT tuvo un efecto sustancial en la salud pública. Estos resultados ayudarán 
a informar a los responsables de la toma de decisiones en Argentina y otros 
países sobre el potencial impacto económico y de salud pública de esta política.

Publisher: الغرض: تقدير أثر السياسات الأرجنتينية للحد من الأحماض الدهنية 
المتحولة (TFA) على مرض القلبي الوعائي (CHD)، وسنوات العمر المصححة باحتساب مدد 
العجز (DALYs)، ونفقات الرعاية الصحية المرتبطة بها.
الطريقة: تشير تقديراتنا إلى أن نسبة المدخول الأساسي من الأحماض الدهنية المتحولة 
قبل عام 2004 كانت تبلغ 1.5% من إجمالي مدخول الطاقة. لذلك، قمنا بوضع نموذج لسياسة 
تتضمن المدخول الأساسي من الأحماض الدهنية المتحولة والزيوت والدهون المستخدمة لتحل 
محل تلك الأحماض الدهنية المتحولة، والأثر الإكلينيكي لتقليل الأحماض الدهنية 
المتحولة والتكاليف وسنوات العمر المصححة باحتساب مدد العجز التي يتم توفيرها بسبب 
تحاشي وقائع الإصابة بالأمراض القلبية الوعائية. ولكي يتم حساب النسبة المئوية 
لتقليل الإصابة بالأمراض القلبية الوعائية، فقد احتسبنا مخاطر تلك الأمراض على عينة 
تستند إلى شريحة سكانية قبل تنفيذ السياسة وبعدها. وتم وضع نماذج لأثر السياسات 
باتباع ثلاث طرق استناداً إلى التغييرات المتوقعة: (1) في أنماط دهون البلازما، 
و(2) في الدهون والمحددات الحيوية الالتهابية (Inflammatory biomarkers، و(3) نتائج 
الدراسات الأترابية الاستباقية (Prospective cohort studies). كما وضعنا تقديرًا 
للقيمة الاقتصادية الحالية لسنوات العمر المصححة باحتساب مدد العجز وما يرتبط بها 
من تكاليف للرعاية الصحية لمرض القلب الوعائي الذي تم تحاشي الإصابة به.
النتائج: تشير تقديراتنا إلى أن التغييرات المتوقعة في نمط الدهون سيؤدي إلى تحاشي 
301 حالة وفاة، و1066 واقعة إصابة بحالات حادة من الأمراض القلبية الوعائية، وإنقاذ 
5237 سنة عمر مصححة باحتساب مدد العجز، و17 مليون دولار أمريكي سنويًا من نفقات 
الرعاية الصحية. وبناءً على الآثار الجانبية لمدخول الأحماض الدهنية المتحولة التي 
وردت تقارير بشأنها في الدراسات الأترابية الاستباقية، فسيتم تجنب 1517 حالة وفاة، 
و5373 واقعة إصابة بحالات حادة من الأمراض القلبية الوعائية، وإنقاذ 26,394 سنة عمر 
مصححة باحتساب مدد العجز، و87 مليون دولار أمريكي سنويًا.
الاستنتاج: حتى في ظل السيناريوهات الأكثر تحفظًا، فقد كان للحد من مدخول الأحماض 
الدهنية المتحولة أثر كبير على الصحة العامة. ومن شأن هذه النتائج أن تفيد في تقديم 
المعلومات الكافية لصناع القرار بالأرجنتين وغيرها من البلدان بشأن الأثر المحتمل 
على الصحة العامة والآثار الاقتصادية لهذه السياسية.

Publisher: 目的: 旨在评估阿根廷境内关于减少使用反式脂肪酸 (TFA) 的政策对冠心病 (CHD)、残疾调整生命年 (DALY) 
和相关医疗保健成本产生的影响。.
方法: 我们估计出 2004 年之前对反式脂肪酸 (TFA) 的基准摄入量为总能量摄入的 1.5%。 我们构建了政策模型，包括对反式脂肪酸 (TFA) 
的基准摄入量、用于代替人工反式脂肪酸 (TFA) 的油脂、减少使用人工反式脂肪酸 (TFA) 的临床效果，以及因预防冠心病 (CHD) 
事件而节约的成本和残疾调整生命年 (DALY)。 为了计算冠心病 (CHD) 减少的百分比，我们在实施前后基于研究人群计算了冠心病 (CHD) 风险。 
根据预测的变化，以三种方式模拟政策的影响： (i) 血浆中的血脂；(ii) 脂质和炎性标记物；以及 (iii) 前瞻性群组研究的结果。 
我们还估计了残疾调整生命年 (DALY) 在当下的经济价值，以及预防冠心病的相关医疗保健成本。.
结果: 我们估计，血脂变化预计每年将会避免 301 人死亡、1066 例急性冠心病 (CHD) 事件和 5237 个残疾调整生命年 (DALY)，并可节约 
1700 万美元 (US$) 的医疗保健成本。 基于前瞻性群组研究中所报告的摄入反式脂肪酸 (TFA) 后产生的不良影响，每年可防止 1517 人死亡、5373 
例急性冠心病 (CHD) 事件和 26 394 个残疾调整生命年 (DALY)，并可节约 8700 万美元 (US$)。.
结论: 即使是在最为保守的情况中，减少摄入反式脂肪酸 (TFA) 也可对公众健康产生重大影响。 
这些调查结果将有助于让阿根廷和其他国家的决策制定者了解潜在的公众健康问题和这项政策的经济影响。.

Publisher: ЦЕЛЬ: Оценить воздействие применяемых в Аргентине политик по 
уменьшению количества трансжирных кислот в пище (ТЖК) на развитие ишемической 
болезни сердца (ИБС), на количество лет жизни, утраченных в результате болезни, 
и на сопутствующие расходы на здравоохранение.
МЕТОДЫ: По нашим оценкам, до 2004 года 1,5% общего количества пищевых калорий 
приходилось на ТЖК, и эту величину мы приняли за базовый уровень. Мы разработали 
модель политики, включающую базовый уровень потребления ТЖК, жиры и масла, 
которыми планировалось заменить искусственные ТЖК, клинический эффект от 
снижения уровня ТЖК, а также уровень экономии и количество спасенных лет жизни в 
результате предотвращения случаев ИБС. Для расчета процентной доли снижения ИБС 
были рассчитаны риски возникновения ИБС для популяционной выборки до и после 
реализации вышеуказанной политики. Эффект от применения политик моделировался 
тремя путями в зависимости от предполагаемых изменений: (i) по профилям липидов 
в плазме, (ii) по липидам и биомаркерам воспалительного процесса и (iii) по 
результатам проспективных когортных исследований. Мы также оценили текущее 
экономическое значение спасенных лет жизни и уменьшения сопутствующих расходов 
на лечение в случае предотвращения ишемической болезни сердца.
РЕЗУЛЬТАТЫ: По предварительным оценкам, предполагаемые изменения в профиле 
липидов позволят предотвратить 301 смерть, 1066 острых случаев ИБС, спасти 5237 
лет жизни и сэкономить 17 млн долл. США на ежегодных расходах на 
здравоохранение. Если исходить из неблагоприятных последствий употребления 
пищевых ТЖК, о которых сообщалось в проспективных когортных исследованиях, то 
ежегодно можно будет предотвратить 1517 смертей, 5373 острых случая ИБС, спасти 
26 394 года жизни и сэкономить 87 млн долл. США на медицинских расходах.
ВЫВОД: Даже при самом неблагоприятном сценарии уменьшение употребления ТЖК в 
значительной мере повлияет на здоровье населения. Эти результаты помогут 
информировать ответственных лиц в Аргентине и других странах о потенциальном 
воздействии такой политики на здоровье населения и национальную экономику.

DOI: 10.2471/BLT.14.150516
PMCID: PMC4581646
PMID: 26478625 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


108. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2015;15(6):931-40. doi: 
10.1586/14737167.2015.1102633. Epub 2015 Oct 19.

The peculiar economics of life-extending therapies: a review of costing methods 
in health economic evaluations in oncology.

Olchanski N(1), Zhong Y(1), Cohen JT(1), Saret C(1), Bala M(1)(2), Neumann 
PJ(1).

Author information:
(1)a Center for the Evaluation of Value and Risk in Health, Institute for 
Clinical Research and Health Policy Studies , Tufts Medical Center , Boston , MA 
, USA.
(2)b Sanofi , Cambridge , MA , USA.

Published literature lacks consensus, and most guidelines lack definitive 
recommendations as to whether cost-effectiveness analyses (CEAs) should include 
all "future" costs or distinguish between related and unrelated medical costs. 
This systematic review of oncology CEAs evaluated cost methods used and the 
impact on the cost-effectiveness of incorporating different cost categories, 
including costs due to study intervention, related medical costs of the treated 
condition, and unrelated medical costs. Of the 59 studies reviewed, none 
included medical costs unrelated to the treated condition and 14 studies (32%) 
excluded direct medical costs related to the condition but not the evaluated 
intervention. Recomputing ICERs using different cost categories altered overall 
cost-effectiveness conclusions. The authors propose conventional CEA methods may 
implicitly penalize therapies that add "expensive" life years for chronically 
ill patients. Presenting ICERs computed with and without disease-attributable 
costs can help better convey how much the treatment itself contributes to 
overall costs.

DOI: 10.1586/14737167.2015.1102633
PMID: 26478989 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


109. G Ital Nefrol. 2015;32 Suppl 64:gin/32.S64.6.

[Kidney Transplantation and inborn errors of metabolism].

[Article in Italian]

Capelli I, Battaglino G, Baraldi O, Ravaioli M, Cuna V, Moretti I, Angeletti A, 
Mencarelli F, Pasini A, Montini G, Pinna AD, La Manna G.

Inherited kidney diseases constitute at least 150 different disorders and they 
have an overall prevalence of about 6080 cases per 100,000 in Europe and in USA. 
At least 10% of adults and nearly all children who progress to renal-replacement 
therapy have an inherited kidney disease, representing the fifth most common 
cause of end-stage renal disease after diabetes, hypertension, 
glomerulonephritis, and pyelonephritis. These conditions include both structural 
and functional disorders, among which are counted diseases resulting from inborn 
errors of metabolism (IEM). Some inborn errors of metabolism primarily affect 
kidney and because of progress in renal replacement therapy, patients with 
inherited kidney disorders rarely die when their disease progresses and can live 
for many years. However, these patients often have compromised health with a 
poor quality of life. Renal transplantation offers a viable treatment option for 
those inborn errors of metabolism characterized by primary renal damage caused 
by dysfunction of a mutated protein, as in cystinuria. In this case, the 
indication to renal transplantation makes it possible to overcome the specific 
enzyme defect. However this option remains valid even when the genetic defect is 
expressed systemically and renal involvement is just one of the clinical 
manifestations of the disease, as in Anderson-Fabry disease, cystinosis, 
hereditary amyloidosis and primary hyperoxaluria. In these conditions, renal 
transplantation is combined with the liver (primary hyperoxaluria) or cardiac 
transplant (familial amyloidosis) improving the quality and life expectancy of 
patients.

PMID: 26479053 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


110. Scand J Urol. 2016;50(2):128-31. doi: 10.3109/21681805.2015.1096826. Epub
2015  Oct 19.

Urinary incontinence in patients with cystic fibrosis.

Reichman G(1), De Boe V(1), Braeckman J(1), Michielsen D(1).

Author information:
(1)a Department of Urology , University Hospital - Free University of Brussels 
(VUB) , Brussels , Belgium.

OBJECTIVE: Owing to evolution in treatment, the average life expectancy of 
patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) has increased. This has been followed by an 
increase in urological complications such as urinary incontinence. As stress 
incontinence occurs during exercise, it may have a negative effect on the 
implementation of respiratory physiotherapy. The purpose of this study is to 
determine the prevalence of urinary incontinence and its effect on the quality 
of life and physiotherapy in a population with CF.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Questionnaires were used to determine the prevalence of 
incontinence in patients of the Cystic Fibrosis Clinic of the University 
Hospital in Brussels. Two different surveys were used, depending on the age of 
the patients (< 12 or ≥ 12 years). The different characteristics of incontinence 
were emphasized.
RESULTS: Questionnaires were completed by 122 participants aged 6-59 years, 
showing an overall prevalence of 27% for urinary incontinence. Mainly adults 
reported urinary incontinence, with a prevalence of 11% in men and 68% in women 
aged 12 and above. The amount of urinary leakage was usually only a few drops 
and it was mainly triggered by coughing. Many of the participants had never 
mentioned this symptom to anyone.
CONCLUSIONS: Doctors' and physical therapists' attention should be drawn to the 
fact that urinary incontinence is part of the complication spectrum of CF. A 
quarter of the study population refrained from coughing up phlegm and from 
physiotherapy. It is important to actively question and inform about this 
problem, to enable its detection and treatment.

DOI: 10.3109/21681805.2015.1096826
PMID: 26479266 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


111. Transplantation. 2015 Nov;99(11):2401-12. doi: 10.1097/TP.0000000000000913.

Design and Implementation of the International Genetics and Translational 
Research in Transplantation Network.

International Genetics & Translational Research in Transplantation Network 
(iGeneTRAiN).

Collaborators: Keating BJ, van Setten J, Jacobson PA, Holmes MV, Verma SS, 
Chandrupatla HR, Nair N, Gao H, Li YR, Chang BL, Wong C, Phillips R, Cole BS, 
Mukhtar E, Zhang W, Cao H, Mohebnasab M, Hou C, Lee T, Steel L, Shaked O, 
Garifallou J, Miller MB, Karczewski KJ, Akdere A, Gonzalez A, Lloyd KM, McGinn 
D, Michaud Z, Colasacco A, Lek M, Fu Y, Pawashe M, Guettouche T, Himes A, Perez 
L, Guan W, Wu B, Schladt D, Menon M, Zhang Z, Tragante V, de Jonge N, Otten HG, 
de Weger RA, van de Graaf EA, Baan CC, Manintveld OC, De Vlaminck I, Piening BD, 
Strehl C, Shaw M, Snieder H, Klintmalm GB, O'Leary JG, Amaral S, Goldfarb S, 
Rand E, Rossano JW, Kohli U, Heeger P, Stahl E, Christie JD, Fuentes MH, Levine 
JE, Aplenc R, Schadt EE, Stranger BE, Kluin J, Potena L, Zuckermann A, Khush K, 
Alzahrani AJ, Al-Muhanna FA, Al-Ali AK, Al-Ali R, Al-Rubaish AM, Al-Mueilo S, 
Byrne EM, Miller D, Alexander SI, Onengut-Gumuscu S, Rich SS, Suthanthiran M, 
Tedesco H, Saw CL, Ragoussis J, Kfoury AG, Horne B, Carlquist J, Gerstein MB, 
Reindl-Schwaighofer R, Oberbauer R, Wijmenga C, Palmer S, Pereira AC, Segovia J, 
