CONCLUSIONS: Different poisonings should be weighted differently since they vary 
widely. Unfortunately, they are currently all weighted the same.

© The Author(s) 2015.

DOI: 10.1177/0960327115617229
PMID: 26655638 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


645. BMJ Open. 2015 Dec 9;5(12):e009148. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2015-009148.

Cost-effectiveness of a European ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction 
network: results from the Catalan Codi Infart network.

Regueiro A(1), Bosch J(2), Martín-Yuste V(3), Rosas A(4), Faixedas MT(4), 
Gómez-Hospital JA(5), Figueras J(6), Curós A(7), Cequier A(5), Goicolea J(8), 
Fernández-Ortiz A(8), Macaya C(8), Tresserras R(4), Pellisé L(2), Sabaté M(1).

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Cardiología, Hospital Clínic Barcelona, Institut d'Investigacions 
Biomèdiques August Pi i Sunyer IDIBAPS, Universitat de Barcelona, Barcelona, 
Spain Iniciativa Stent for Life, Spain.
(2)Centro de Investigación en Economía y Salud, Universidad Pompeu Fabra, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(3)Servicio de Cardiología, Hospital Clínic Barcelona, Institut d'Investigacions 
Biomèdiques August Pi i Sunyer IDIBAPS, Universitat de Barcelona, Barcelona, 
Spain.
(4)Departament de Salut, Generalitat de Catalunya, Catalonia, Spain.
(5)Servicio de Cardiología, Hospital Universitari Bellvitge, Barcelona, Spain.
(6)Servicio de Cardiología, Hospital Vall d´Hebron, Barcelona, Spain.
(7)Servicio de Cardiología, Hospital Universitario Germans Trias i Pujol, 
Badalona, Spain.
(8)Iniciativa Stent for Life, Spain.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of the ST-segment elevation 
myocardial infarction (STEMI) network of Catalonia (Codi Infart).
DESIGN: Cost-utility analysis.
SETTING: The analysis was from the Catalonian Autonomous Community in Spain, 
with a population of about 7.5 million people.
PARTICIPANTS: Patients with STEMI treated within the autonomous community of 
Catalonia (Spain) included in the IAM CAT II-IV and Codi Infart registries.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Costs included hospitalisation, procedures and additional 
personnel and were obtained according to the reperfusion strategy. Clinical 
outcomes were defined as 30-day avoided mortality and quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs), before (N=356) and after network implementation (N=2140).
RESULTS: A substitution effect and a technology effect were observed; aggregate 
costs increased by 2.6%. The substitution effect resulted from increased use of 
primary coronary angioplasty, a relatively expensive procedure and a decrease in 
fibrinolysis. Primary coronary angioplasty increased from 31% to 89% with the 
network, and fibrinolysis decreased from 37% to 3%. Rescue coronary angioplasty 
declined from 11% to 4%, and no reperfusion from 21% to 4%. The technological 
effect was related to improvements in the percutaneous coronary intervention 
procedure that increased efficiency, reducing the average length of the hospital 
stay. Mean costs per patient decreased from €8306 to €7874 for patients with 
primary coronary angioplasty. Clinical outcomes in patients treated with primary 
coronary angioplasty did not change significantly, although 30-day mortality 
decreased from 7.5% to 5.6%. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio resulted 
in an extra cost of €4355 per life saved (30-day mortality) and €495 per QALY. 
Below a cost threshold of €30,000, results were sensitive to variations in costs 
and outcomes.
CONCLUSIONS: The Catalan STEMI network (Codi Infart) is cost-efficient. Further 
studies are needed in geopolitical different scenarios.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not 
already granted under a licence) please go to 
http://www.bmj.com/company/products-services/rights-and-licensing/

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2015-009148
PMCID: PMC4679883
PMID: 26656019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


646. J Natl Compr Canc Netw. 2015 Dec;13(12):1490-5. doi:
10.6004/jnccn.2015.0177.

Making the Grade: The Impact of Low-Grade Toxicities on Patient Preference for 
Treatment With Novel Agents.

Castellanos EH(1), Chen SC(1), Drexler H(1), Horn L(1).

Author information:
(1)From the Division of Hematology and Oncology, Vanderbilt University Medical 
Center; Division of Quantitative Sciences, Vanderbilt University Medical Center; 
and Vanderbilt University School of Medicine, Nashville, Tennessee.

BACKGROUND: Targeted therapies have shown clinical benefit in the treatment of 
solid tumors. The toxicity profiles and treatment duration and schedule of these 
agents differ considerably from those of traditional chemotherapy. Many studies 
of targeted therapies report sizeable numbers of grade 1 or 2 toxicities. We 
sought to determine whether anticipation of low-grade toxicities and treatment 
logistics impact patient willingness to undergo therapy.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A total of 209 patients with cancer (101 lung and 108 
breast) were surveyed at the Vanderbilt-Ingram Cancer Center regarding 
willingness to comply with treatment based on anticipated efficacy, dosing 
convenience, and toxicity profiles. All toxicities were Common Terminology 
Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0 grade 1 and 2. Willingness to 
comply with treatment depending on toxicity, anticipated benefit, cancer type, 
and dosing convenience was compared.
RESULTS: A substantial number of patients (2.9%-48.8%, depending on the toxicity 
described) professed unwillingness to undergo treatment because of anticipated 
grade 1 and 2 toxicities. Gastrointestinal and constitutional toxicities had a 
stronger negative impact on patient willingness to undergo therapy than 
dermatologic toxicity. Patients with lung cancer were significantly more likely 
to accept dermatologic and gastrointestinal toxicities than those with breast 
cancer. Willingness to tolerate toxicities correlated with expected benefit in 
terms of life expectancy and chance of cure. Lengthy travel distance for 
treatment negatively impacted willingness to undergo treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: Anticipation of low-grade toxicities and dosing inconvenience 
negatively impacts patient willingness to be treated, which may affect adherence 
and therapeutic outcomes from therapy. Long-term tolerability should be 
considered when developing and assessing the impact of novel agents.

Copyright © 2015 by the National Comprehensive Cancer Network.

DOI: 10.6004/jnccn.2015.0177
PMID: 26656518 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


647. J Natl Compr Canc Netw. 2015 Dec;13(12):1576-83. doi:
10.6004/jnccn.2015.0183.

The Case for Tailored Prostate Cancer Screening: An NCCN Perspective.

McDonald ML(1), Parsons JK(1).

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Urology, UC San Diego Health System, La Jolla, 
California.

A preponderance of clinical evidence supports a significant public health 
benefit for screening and early detection of prostate cancer in selected men. 
The challenge lies in maximizing early diagnosis of potentially aggressive but 
curable disease while minimizing diagnosis and treatment of indolent disease. A 
tailored approach to population screening in appropriately counseled men, using 
an evidence-based strategy with judicious prostate-specific antigen (PSA) 
testing, will reduce prostate-cancer mortality yet limit overdetection of 
clinically insignificant disease. Use of newer biomarkers that increase 
specificity for prostate cancer detection, including percentage of free PSA, 
4Kscore, prostate health index, prostate cancer antigen 3, and multiparametric 
MRI may be considered under certain circumstances.

Copyright © 2015 by the National Comprehensive Cancer Network.

DOI: 10.6004/jnccn.2015.0183
PMID: 26656524 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


648. Vaccine. 2016 Jan 12;34(3):320-7. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2015.11.053. Epub
2015  Dec 2.

Retrospective economic evaluation of childhood 7-valent pneumococcal conjugate 
vaccination in Australia: Uncertain herd impact on pneumonia critical.

Newall AT(1), Reyes JF(2), McIntyre P(3), Menzies R(3), Beutels P(4), Wood 
JG(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health and Community Medicine, UNSW Australia, Sydney, NSW, 
Australia. Electronic address: a.newall@unsw.edu.au.
(2)School of Public Health and Community Medicine, UNSW Australia, Sydney, NSW, 
Australia.
(3)National Centre for Immunisation Research and Surveillance of Vaccine 
Preventable Diseases (NCIRS), University of Sydney, Westmead, NSW, Australia.
(4)School of Public Health and Community Medicine, UNSW Australia, Sydney, NSW, 
Australia; Centre for Health Economics Research and Modelling Infectious 
Diseases (CHERMID), Vaccine and Infectious Disease Institute, University of 
Antwerp, Antwerp, Belgium.

BACKGROUND: Retrospective cost-effectiveness analyses of vaccination programs 
using routinely collected post-implementation data are sparse by comparison with 
pre-program analyses. We performed a retrospective economic evaluation of the 
childhood 7-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV7) program in Australia.
METHODS: We developed a deterministic multi-compartment model that describes 
health states related to invasive and non-invasive pneumococcal disease. Costs 
(Australian dollars, A$) and health effects (quality-adjusted life years, QALYs) 
were attached to model states. The perspective for costs was that of the 
healthcare system and government. Where possible, we used observed changes in 
the disease rates from national surveillance and healthcare databases to 
estimate the impact of the PCV7 program (2005-2010). We stratified our 
cost-effectiveness results into alternative scenarios which differed by the 
outcome states included. Parameter uncertainty was explored using probabilistic 
sensitivity analysis.
RESULTS: The PCV7 program was estimated to have prevented ∼5900 hospitalisations 
and ∼160 deaths from invasive pneumococcal disease (IPD). Approximately half of 
these were prevented in adults via herd protection. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio was ∼A$161,000 per QALY gained when including only 
IPD-related outcomes. The cost-effectiveness of PCV7 remained in the range 
A$88,000-$122,000 when changes in various non-invasive disease states were 
included. The inclusion of observed changes in adult non-invasive pneumonia 
deaths substantially improved cost-effectiveness (∼A$9000 per QALY gained).
CONCLUSION: Using the initial vaccine price negotiated for Australia, the PCV7 
program was unlikely to have been cost-effective (at conventional thresholds) 
unless observed reductions in non-invasive pneumonia deaths in the elderly are 
attributed to it. Further analyses are required to explore this finding, which 
has significant implications for the incremental benefit achievable by adult PCV 
programs.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2015.11.053
PMID: 26657187 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


649. JBI Database System Rev Implement Rep. 2015 Nov;13(11):43-51. doi: 
10.11124/jbisrir-2015-2474.

Characteristics of Indigenous primary health care models of service delivery: a 
scoping review protocol.

Harfield S(1), Davy C, Kite E, McArthur A, Munn Z, Brown N, Brown A.

Author information:
(1)1 National Aboriginal Community Controlled Health Organization, Canberra, 
Australia2 Wardliparingga Aboriginal Health Research Unit, South Australian 
Health and Medical Research Institute, Australia3 School of Public Health, 
Faculty of Health Sciences, The University of Adelaide, Australia4 Joanna Briggs 
Institute, Faculty of Health Sciences, The University of Adelaide, Australia5 
Indigenous Health and Education, Faculty of Education and Graduate School of 
Medicine, University of Wollongong, Australia.

REVIEW OBJECTIVE: The objective of the scoping review is to identify and 
describe within the existing literature the characteristics (values, principles, 
components and suggest practical applications) of primary health care models of 
service delivery for Indigenous people. More specifically, the review question 
is:What are the characteristics (values, principles, components and suggested 
practical applications) of primary health care models of service delivery for 
Indigenous people?Findings from this scoping review will inform two systematic 
reviews. One of these will explore the acceptability and the other the 
effectiveness of identified characteristics.
METHODOLOGY: The scoping review will follow the JBI Scoping Review methodology 
as outlined in the 2015 Joanna Briggs Institute Reviewers' Manual.
BACKGROUND: Indigenous populations in colonized countries experience worse 
health outcomes relative to their non-Indigenous counterparts. In Australia, in 
the period 2010 to 2012 the estimated gap in life expectancy between Aboriginal 
and Torres Strait Islander Australians compared to non-Indigenous Australians 
was 10 years Similar gaps in life expectancy between Indigenous and 
non-Indigenous have been demonstrated in other countries, such as New Zealand, 
Canada and the United StatesThe gap in life expectancy and the health 
disadvantage experienced by Indigenous people is in part the result of 
mainstream health services not adequately meeting the health needs of Indigenous 
people and Indigenous people's inability to access mainstream services Part of 
the solution has been the establishment of primary health care services for and 
in many cases run by Indigenous people. Indigenous primary health services have 
been developed to provide culturally appropriate services that meet the needs of 
local Indigenous communities.In Australia, the first Aboriginal medical service 
was established in 1971 in Redfern, New South Wales, by "community activists in 
response to ongoing discrimination against Aboriginal people within mainstream 
health services to address the poor health and premature deaths of Aboriginal 
people, and to provide a culturally appropriate system of health care". There 
are now over 150 Aboriginal Community Controlled Health Services in Australia. 
Aboriginal Community Controlled Health Services are underpinned by common values 
such as culture, cultural respect, integrity, inclusion, self-determination, 
community control, sovereignty and leadership.Similar models of Indigenous 
health services exist in other countries, such as Māori health providers in New 
Zealand, First Nations and Inuit Health Authorities in Canada, and the Indian 
Health Services in the US. In New Zealand, Māori health providers deliver health 
and disability services to Māori and non-Māori clients. The difference between 
Māori health providers and mainstream services in New Zealand is that Māori 
health services are based on kaupapa, a plan or set of principles and ideas that 
informs behavior and customs, and the delivery framework which is distinctively 
Māori. First Nations and Inuit Health Authorities in Canada coordinate and 
integrate health programs and services to achieve better health outcomes for 
First Nations people. These community-based services largely focus on health 
promotion and prevention. First Nations and Inuit Health Authorities work under 
a unique health governance structure that includes local First Nations' 
leadership, based on the philosophy of self-governance and self-determination, 
which represent and address the health needs of First Nation communities. The 
Indian Health Service (IHS) in the US is responsible for providing comprehensive 
health services to American Indians and Alaska Natives. The IHS aims to raise 
the physical, mental, social and spiritual health of American Indians and Alaska 
Natives to the highest level, and its goal is "to ensure that comprehensive, 
culturally acceptable personal and public health services are available and 
accessible to American Indian and Alaska Native people". The IHS "grew out of a 
special government-to-government relationship between the federal government and 
Indian Tribes".Evidence suggests that "a strong primary health care sector is 
essential to the health and wellbeing of a population, and that a strong primary 
health care sector is associated with better population health, reduced costs of 
health care provision, and greater efficiency within the system". A study of 
Aboriginal Canadians shows that poor access and ineffective primary health care 
services were directly related to increased avoidable hospital admissions. In 
addition, a recent study in Australia focusing on the costs and the health 
outcomes associated with primary care use by Indigenous people with diabetes in 
remote communities in the Northern Territory demonstrates that improved access 
to primary health care which is responsive to the needs of Aboriginal and Torres 
Strait Islander people is both cost-effective and associated with better health 
outcomes.Given the strong link between primary health care and health outcomes 
and the significant contribution Indigenous health services make towards 
reducing the health disadvantage experienced by Indigenous people, it is 
important to understand the characteristics that support the delivery of health 
provided by Indigenous health services and their unique models. While there is 
not a clear definition in the literature about what a model of care or model of 
service delivery is, for the purpose of this review, it will encompass all 
factors involved in the delivery of care including but not limited to the 
vision, values and strategies that underpin the delivery of care, healthcare 
services and programs, governance and leadership, workforce, organization and 
supply, and infrastructure and other resources.The aim of this scoping review is 
to determine the characteristics of Indigenous primary health care models of 
service delivery by drawing on existing literature that look at the way in which 
services are delivered in this setting.An initial search of literature was 
conducted to establish whether there are studies with findings available to 
answer the review question, and whether there is a systematic or scoping review 
addressing the knowledge gap currently underway or published. There are no 
systematic or scoping reviews published or underway that address the question 
proposed by this review.

DOI: 10.11124/jbisrir-2015-2474
PMID: 26657463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


650. PLoS One. 2015 Dec 10;10(12):e0144545. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0144545. 
eCollection 2015.

Cost-Effectiveness of a Home Based Intervention for Secondary Prevention of 
Readmission with Chronic Heart Disease.

Byrnes J(1), Carrington M(2), Chan YK(2), Pollicino C(3), Dubrowin N(3), Stewart 
S(2), Scuffham PA(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Applied Health Economics, Griffith University, Meadowbrook, 
Australia.
(2)Mary MacKillop Institute for Health Research, Australian Catholic University, 
Melbourne, Australia.
(3)Bupa Australia, Melbourne, Australia.

The aim of this study is to consider the cost-effectiveness of a nurse-led, 
home-based intervention (HBI) in cardiac patients with private health insurance 
compared to usual post-discharge care. A within trial analysis of the Young @ 
Heart multicentre, randomized controlled trial along with a micro-simulation 
decision analytical model was conducted to estimate the incremental costs and 
quality adjusted life years associated with the home based intervention compared 
to usual care. For the micro-simulation model, future costs, from the 
perspective of the funder, and effects are estimated over a twenty-year time 
horizon. An Incremental Cost-Effectiveness Ratio, along with Incremental Net 
Monetary Benefit, is evaluated using a willingness to pay threshold of $50,000 
per quality adjusted life year. Sub-group analyses are conducted for men and 
women across three age groups separately. Costs and benefits that arise in the 
future are discounted at five percent per annum. Overall, home based 
intervention for secondary prevention in patients with chronic heart disease 
identified in the Australian private health care sector is not cost-effective. 
The estimated within trial incremental net monetary benefit is -$3,116 [95% CI: 
-11,145, $4,914]; indicating that the costs outweigh the benefits. However, for 
males and in particular males aged 75 years and above, home based intervention 
indicated a potential to reduce health care costs when compared to usual care 
(within trial: -$10,416 [95% CI: -$26,745, $5,913]; modelled analysis: -$1,980 
[95% CI: -$22,843, $14,863]). This work provides a crucial impetus for future 
research to understand for whom disease management programs are likely to 
benefit most.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0144545
PMCID: PMC4684189
PMID: 26657844 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have read the 
journal's policy and the authors of this manuscript have the following competing 
interests: The Young@Heart trial was funded by Bupa Australia. JB, PS, SS, YKC 
and MC have provided paid consultancy for Bupa Australia; CP and ND work for 
Bupa Australia. There are no patents, products in development or marketed 
products to declare. This does not alter the authors' adherence to all the PLoS 
ONE policies on sharing data and materials.


651. Inj Prev. 2016 Apr;22 Suppl 1:i23-6. doi: 10.1136/injuryprev-2015-041816.
Epub  2015 Dec 9.

Burden Calculator: a simple and open analytical tool for estimating the 
population burden of injuries.

Bhalla K(1), Harrison JE(2).

Author information:
(1)Johns Hopkins International Injury Research Unit, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg 
School of Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.
(2)Research Centre for Injury Studies, Flinders University, Adelaide, South 
Australia, Australia.

BACKGROUND: Burden of disease and injury methods can be used to summarise and 
compare the effects of conditions in terms of disability-adjusted life years 
(DALYs). Burden estimation methods are not inherently complex. However, as 
commonly implemented, the methods include complex modelling and estimation.
OBJECTIVES: To provide a simple and open-source software tool that allows 
estimation of incidence-DALYs due to injury, given data on incidence of deaths 
and non-fatal injuries. The tool includes a default set of estimation 
parameters, which can be replaced by users.
DEVELOPMENT OF THE SOFTWARE TOOL: The tool was written in Microsoft Excel. All 
calculations and values can be seen and altered by users. The parameter sets 
currently used in the tool are based on published sources.
USING THE SOFTWARE TOOL: The tool is available without charge online at 
http://calculator.globalburdenofinjuries.org. To use the tool with the supplied 
parameter sets, users need to only paste a table of population and injury case 
data organised by age, sex and external cause of injury into a specified 
location in the tool. Estimated DALYs can be read or copied from tables and 
figures in another part of the tool.
CONCLUSIONS: In some contexts, a simple and user-modifiable burden calculator 
may be preferable to undertaking a more complex study to estimate the burden of 
disease. The tool and the parameter sets required for its use can be improved by 
user innovation, by studies comparing DALYs estimates calculated in this way and 
in other ways, and by shared experience of its use.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not 
already granted under a licence) please go to 
http://www.bmj.com/company/products-services/rights-and-licensing/

DOI: 10.1136/injuryprev-2015-041816
PMID: 26658340 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


652. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2016 Apr;70(4):324-8. doi: 
10.1136/jech-2015-206336. Epub 2015 Dec 9.

Could androgens be relevant to partly explain why men have lower life expectancy 
than women?

Schooling CM(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Urban Public Health at Hunter College and City University of New 
York School of Public Health, New York, USA Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, 
School of Public Health, The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong Special 
Administrative Region, Hong Kong, China.

DOI: 10.1136/jech-2015-206336
PMCID: PMC4819655
PMID: 26659456 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


653. Dev Med Child Neurol. 2016 Jun;58(6):632-8. doi: 10.1111/dmcn.12984. Epub
2015  Dec 11.

Surgical fusion of early onset severe scoliosis increases survival in Rett 
syndrome: a cohort study.

Downs J(1)(2), Torode I(3), Wong K(1), Ellaway C(4)(5)(6), Elliott EJ(5)(6), 
Izatt MT(7), Askin GN(7), Mcphee BI(8), Cundy P(9)(10), Leonard H(1); Rett 
syndrome spinal fusion group.

Collaborators: Jacoby P, Thomson MR, Bridge C, Christodoulou J.

Author information:
(1)Telethon Kids Institute, The University of Western Australia, Perth, WA, 
Australia.
(2)School of Physiotherapy and Exercise Science, Curtin University, Perth, WA, 
Australia.
(3)Department of Orthopaedics, Royal Children's Hospital, Melbourne, Vic., 
Australia.
(4)Discipline of Genetic Medicine, The University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, 
Australia.
(5)Discipline of Paediatrics and Child Health, The Children's Hospital at 
Westmead, The University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(6)The Sydney Children's Hospitals Network (Westmead), Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(7)Paediatric Spine Research Group, Lady Cilento Children's Hospital, Queensland 
University of Technology, Brisbane, Qld, Australia.
(8)Department of Surgery, University of Queensland, Brisbane, Qld, Australia.
(9)Discipline of Orthopaedics and Trauma, University of Adelaide, Adelaide, SA, 
Australia.
(10)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Women's and Children's Hospital, 
Adelaide, SA, Australia.

Comment in
    Dev Med Child Neurol. 2016 Jun;58(6):538-9.

AIM: Scoliosis is a common comorbidity in Rett syndrome and spinal fusion may be 
recommended if severe. We investigated the impact of spinal fusion on survival 
and risk of severe lower respiratory tract infection in Rett syndrome.
METHOD: Data were ascertained from hospital medical records, the Australian Rett 
Syndrome Database, a longitudinal and population-based registry, and from the 
Australian Institute of Health and Welfare National Death Index database. Cox 
regression and generalized estimating equation models were used to estimate the 
effects of spinal surgery on survival and severe respiratory infection 
respectively in 140 females who developed severe scoliosis (Cobb angle ≥45°) 
before adulthood.
RESULTS: After adjusting for mutation type and age of scoliosis onset, the rate 
of death was lower in the surgery group (hazard ratio [HR] 0.30, 95% confidence 
interval [CI] 0.12-0.74; p=0.009) compared to those without surgery. Rate of 
death was particularly reduced for those with early onset scoliosis (HR 0.17, 
95% CI 0.06-0.52; p=0.002). There was some evidence to suggest that spinal 
fusion was associated with a reduction in risk of severe respiratory infection 
among those with early onset scoliosis (risk ratio 0.41, 95% CI 0.16-1.03; 
p=0.06).
INTERPRETATION: With appropriate cautions, spinal fusion confers an advantage to 
life expectancy in Rett syndrome.

© 2015 Mac Keith Press.

DOI: 10.1111/dmcn.12984
PMID: 26661519 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


654. Br J Surg. 2016 Jan;103(2):e93-9. doi: 10.1002/bjs.10056. Epub 2015 Dec 10.

Effect of age on survival in patients undergoing resection of hepatocellular 
carcinoma.

Cucchetti A(1), Sposito C(2), Pinna AD(1), Citterio D(2), Ercolani G(1), Flores 
M(2), Cescon M(1), Mazzaferro V(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical and Surgical Sciences - DIMEC, S. Orsola-Malpighi 
Hospital, Alma Mater Studiorum, University of Bologna, Bologna, Italy.
(2)Gastrointestinal Surgery and Liver Transplantation, Fondazione IRCCS Istituto 
Nazionale Tumori (National Cancer Institute), Milan, Italy.

BACKGROUND: The benefit of surgical intervention for cancer should be estimated 
in relation to the life expectancy of the general population. The aim of this 
study was to provide a measure of relative survival after hepatectomy for 
hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC).
METHODS: Consecutive patients with liver cirrhosis and HCC who underwent 
hepatectomy were divided into age quartiles for analysis. Short- and mid-term 
survival rates were used to estimate survival until death for all patients, in 
relation to age and other co-variables. Years of life lost (YLL) were estimated 
using a reference cohort, derived from the general population matched for sex, 
age and year of diagnosis.
RESULTS: Some 919 patients were included in the study. The following age 
quartiles were identified: less than 60 years (229 patients), 60-66 years (230), 
67-70 years (231) and over 70 years (229). Postoperative mortality rates were 
similar between age quartiles, as were survival rates up to 3 years (P = 0·404). 
A statistically significant reduction in 5-10-year survival rates was observed 
with ageing (P = 0·001). Relative survival calculation showed that the youngest 
age quartile (less than 60 years) experienced the longest entire postoperative 
lifespan (15·6 years) but also the greatest number of YLL (11·0 years). Patients 
aged over 70 years had the shortest entire postoperative lifespan (6·4 years) 
but also the smallest number of YLL (3·7 years).
CONCLUSION: Although survival after liver resection for HCC is shortest in 
elderly patients, relative survival estimates suggest that hepatectomy can be of 
benefit in these patients, with a small loss of the entire individual lifespan.

© 2015 BJS Society Ltd Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/bjs.10056
PMID: 26662121 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


655. Clin Genet. 2016 Aug;90(2):105-17. doi: 10.1111/cge.12710. Epub 2016 Jan 20.

Health risks for ataxia-telangiectasia mutated heterozygotes: a systematic 
review, meta-analysis and evidence-based guideline.

van Os NJ(1), Roeleveld N(2)(3), Weemaes CM(3), Jongmans MC(4), Janssens GO(5), 
Taylor AM(6), Hoogerbrugge N(4), Willemsen MA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology - Pediatric Neurology, Donders Institute for Brain, 
Cognition and Behaviour, Nijmegen, The Netherlands.
(2)Department for Health Evidence, Radboud Institute for Health Sciences, 
Nijmegen, The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, Radboudumc Amalia Children's Hospital, Nijmegen, 
The Netherlands.
(4)Department of Human Genetics, Radboud Institute for Molecular Life Sciences, 
Radboud university medical center, Nijmegen, The Netherlands.
(5)Department of Radiation Oncology, University Medical Center Utrecht and 
Princess Maxima Center for Pediatric Oncology, Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(6)School of Cancer Sciences, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, UK.

Ataxia-telangiectasia (AT) is an autosomal recessive neurodegenerative disorder 
with immunodeficiency and an increased risk of developing cancer, caused by 
mutations in the ataxia-telangiectasia mutated (ATM) gene. Logically, blood 
relatives may also carry a pathogenic ATM mutation. Female carriers of such a 
mutation have an increased risk of breast cancer. Other health risks for 
carriers are suspected but have never been studied systematically. Consequently, 
evidence-based guidelines for carriers are not available yet. We systematically 
analyzed all literature and found that ATM mutation carriers have a reduced life 
expectancy because of mortality from cancer and ischemic heart diseases (RR 1.7, 
95% CI 1.2-2.4) and an increased risk of developing cancer (RR 1.5, 95% CI 
0.9-2.4), in particular breast cancer (RRwomen 3.0, 95% CI 2.1-4.5), and cancers 
of the digestive tract. Associations between ATM heterozygosity and other health 
risks have been suggested, but clear evidence is lacking. Based on these 
results, we propose that all female carriers of 40-50 years of age and female 
ATM c.7271T>G mutation carriers from 25 years of age onwards be offered 
intensified surveillance programs for breast cancer. Furthermore, all carriers 
should be made aware of lifestyle factors that contribute to the development of 
cardiovascular diseases and diabetes.

© 2015 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cge.12710
PMID: 26662178 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


656. Neurol Ther. 2015 Dec;4(2):61-79. doi: 10.1007/s40120-015-0031-3. Epub 2015
Aug  15.

A Review of Tafamidis for the Treatment of Transthyretin-Related Amyloidosis.

Waddington Cruz M(1), Benson MD(2).

Author information:
(1)Amyloidosis Research and Treatment Center (CEPARM), University Hospital 
(HUCFF), Federal University of Rio de Janeiro, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil. 
mwaddingtoncruz@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Indiana University School of 
Medicine, Indianapolis, IN, USA.

Transthyretin (TTR)-related amyloidosis (ATTR) is a devastating disease which 
affects a combination of organs including the heart and the peripheral nerves, 
and which has a fatal outcome if not treated within a average of 10 years. 
Tafamidis, or 2-(3,5-dichloro-phenyl)-benzoxazole-6-carboxylic acid, selectively 
binds to TTR with negative cooperativity and kinetically stabilizes wild-type 
native TTR and mutant TTR; tafamidis therefore has the potential to halt the 
amyloidogenic cascade initiated by TTR tetramer dissociation, monomer 
misfolding, and aggregation. The first tafamidis trial, Fx-005, evaluated the 
effect of 18 months of tafamidis treatment (20 mg once daily) on disease 
progression, as well as assessing its safety in TTR-FAP Val30Met patients. The 
secondary objective of this trial was to study the pharmacodynamic stabilization 
of mutated TTR. Tafamidis proved effective in reducing the progress of 
neuropathy, and in maintaining the nutritional status and quality of life of 
stage 1 (able to walk without support) Val3OMet TTR-FAP patients. Furthermore, 
TTR stabilization was achieved in more than 90% of patients. An extension study, 
Fx-006, was conducted to determine the long-term safety and tolerability of 
tafamidis and to assess the efficacy of the drug on slowing disease progression. 
No significant safety or tolerability issues were noticed. Taken together, the 
results from both trials indicated that the beneficial effects of tafamidis were 
sustained over a 30-month period and that starting treatment early is desirable. 
Results are expected from an extended open-label study but data that have 
already been presented show that long-term use of tafamidis in Val30Met patients 
is associated with reduced progression in polyneuropathy. Tafamidis was 
initially approved for commercial use in Europe in 2011 and has since been 
approved for use in Japan, Mexico, and Argentina where it is used as a 
first-line treatment option for patients with early-stage TTR-FAP. Patients 
should be carefully followed at referral centers to ascertain the individual 
response to treatment. In cases of discontinuation, liver transplantation and 
enrollment in clinical trials of novel drugs aimed mostly toward suppression of 
TTR production are options.

DOI: 10.1007/s40120-015-0031-3
PMCID: PMC4685869
PMID: 26662359

Conflict of interest statement: Márcia Waddington Cruz served as an advisor for 
Pfizer Inc., as well as having served as an advisor and received support as a 
clinical investigator from FoldRx Pharmaceuticals, which was acquired by Pfizer 
Inc. in October 2010. She currently serves on the THAOS (a disease registry 
capturing natural history and effect of the therapies on TTR amyloidosis) 
scientific advisory board. Merril D. Benson has served as a consultant from 
Pfizer Inc. for teaching programs and design of research.


657. Eur J Orthop Surg Traumatol. 2012 Nov;22 Suppl 1:29-34. doi: 
10.1007/s00590-012-1010-3. Epub 2012 May 17.

Prompt surgical management for spinal fracture in the elderly aged over 90 years 
with diffuse idiopathic skeletal hyperostosis to extend their healthy lifespan.

Tanishima S(1), Takeda C(2), Hamamoto Y(1), Kondo Y(1), Nagashima H(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Matsue City Hospital, 32-1 Noshiro-cho, 
Matsue, Shimane, 690-8509, Japan.
(2)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Faculty of Medicine, Tottori University, 
36-1 Nishi-cho, Yonago, Tottori, 683-8504, Japan.
(3)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Faculty of Medicine, Tottori University, 
36-1 Nishi-cho, Yonago, Tottori, 683-8504, Japan. hidekin@med.tottori-u.ac.jp.

There is a possibility that the patients with diffuse idiopathic skeletal 
hyperostosis (DISH) increase with aging of the population and progressive 
lengthening of life expectancy in developed countries. In the patients with 
DISH, even a trivial vertebral fracture may actually turn out to be a 
three-column injury because mechanical stress is applied to the fracture site 
due to the lever arm effect. Under these circumstances, even a prolonged strict 
immobilization often results in failure. Recently, elderly people increasingly 
wish to maintain physical abilities. We present three patients aged over 
90 years with DISH sustaining lower thoracic vertebral fracture after minor 
trauma. Long fusion involving three vertebral levels above and below the 
fracture site was performed with pedicle screw system, and vertebroplasty was 
carried out by transpedicular filling with hydroxyapatite blocks. The patients' 
activities of daily living were maintained close to the pre-injury level 1 year 
and 9 months, 2 years and 3 months, and 1 year after surgery, respectively. Many 
reports have recommended surgery over conservative treatments at vertebral 
fracture complicating DISH; however, there has been no report of vertebral 
fracture in patients aged over 90 years with DISH. Satisfactory results were 
obtained by surgical treatment in our three patients despite their age. We 
recommend posterior fusion with vertebroplasty just after injury for vertebral 
fracture in the elderly patients of advanced age with DISH to extend their 
healthy lifespan.

DOI: 10.1007/s00590-012-1010-3
PMID: 26662744


658. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2016 Jan;1363:116-24. doi: 10.1111/nyas.12973. Epub 2015
Dec  10.

Methionine restriction and life-span control.

Lee BC(1), Kaya A(2), Gladyshev VN(2).

Author information:
(1)College of Life Sciences and Biotechnology, Korea University, Seoul, South 
Korea.
(2)Division of Genetics, Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital 
and Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts.

Dietary restriction (DR) without malnutrition is associated with longevity in 
various organisms. However, it has also been shown that reduced calorie intake 
is often ineffective in extending life span. Selecting optimal dietary regimens 
for DR studies is complicated, as the same regimen may lead to different 
outcomes depending on genotype and environmental factors. Recent studies 
suggested that interventions such as moderate protein restriction with or 
without adequate nutrition (e.g., particular amino acids or carbohydrates) may 
have additional beneficial effects mediated by certain metabolic and hormonal 
factors implicated in the biology of aging, regardless of total calorie intake. 
In particular, it was shown that restriction of a single amino acid, methionine, 
can mimic the effects of DR and extend life span in various model organisms. We 
discuss the beneficial effects of a methionine-restricted diet, the molecular 
pathways involved, and the use of this regimen in longevity interventions.

© 2015 New York Academy of Sciences.

DOI: 10.1111/nyas.12973
PMCID: PMC5008916
PMID: 26663138 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


659. Pediatr Blood Cancer. 2016 Apr;63(4):598-603. doi: 10.1002/pbc.25823. Epub
2015  Dec 10.

Surgical Management of Neuroendocrine Tumors of the Appendix in Children and 
Adolescents: A Retrospective French Multicenter Study of 114 Cases.

de Lambert G(1), Lardy H(2), Martelli H(1), Orbach D(3), Gauthier F(1), Guérin 
F(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Surgery, Hôpital Bicêtre, Hôpitaux Universitaires 
Paris Sud, Le Kremlin-Bicêtre, France.
(2)Department of Pediatric Surgery, CHRU de Tours, Hôpital Clocheville, Tours, 
France.
(3)Department of Pediatric and Adolescent Oncology, Institut Curie, Paris, 
France.

BACKGROUND: Right hemicolectomy (RHC) in patients with neuroendocrine tumors 
(NET) of the appendix has been advocated for tumors more than 2 cm, or with 
mesoappendix/vessel invasion, or with raised mitotic activity. No study 
demonstrated prolonged survival with RHC over appendectomy alone. The aim of 
this study was to contribute to define guidelines for secondary surgery in 
children or adolescents with NET of the appendix.
PROCEDURE: We contacted all French pediatric surgeons and oncologists by mail, 
and reviewed the records of patients under 18 with NET of the appendix from 1988 
until 2012.
RESULTS: A total of 114 patients were recorded with a female/male ratio of 1.6. 
Median age at presentation was 12 years (range: 5-17 years). Ten patients had a 
tumor more than 2 cm. Twenty patients had evidence of extension into the 
mesoappendix, including five with blood or lymph vessels' invasion. Solely, one 
patient had a tumor with a high proliferative index. Incomplete resection was 
observed in three cases. Eighty-five patients had no criterion for secondary 
surgery. Twenty-nine patients had criteria for RHC but only 10 underwent 
surgery. None of the resected specimens showed carcinoid tumor. Three patients 
had positive lymph nodes. At the last follow-up, all patients were alive and 
disease free.
CONCLUSION: Appendectomy alone seems to be curative of these tumors with no 
influence on life expectancy. Follow-up is not only unnecessary, but its means, 
whether clinical, radiological or biological, are ineffective.

© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/pbc.25823
PMID: 26663900 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


660. J Med Life. 2015 Oct-Dec;8(4):423-31.

Project for the National Program of Early Diagnosis of Endometrial Cancer Part 
II.

Bohîlțea RE(1), Ancăr V(1), Rădoi V(1), Furtunescu F(1), Bohîlțea LC(1).

Author information:
(1)"Carol Davila" University of Medicine and Pharmacy, Bucharest, Romania.

RATIONALE: Endometrial cancer recorded a peak incidence in ages 60-64 years in 
Romania. Since 2013, an increased trend of endometrial cancer occurrence has 
been registered in urban areas as compared with rural ones. Unfortunately, most 
of the cancer cases are diagnosed too late, in an advanced stage of the disease, 
resulting into diminished lifetime expectancy. The first part of the article 
concentrated on issues such as: the description of the study, results, and 
discussions regarding the study, definitions and terms, risk factors specific 
for endometrial carcinomas, presentation of the activities of the Program, etc.
OBJECTIVE: Drafting a national program that will serve as an early diagnosis 
method of endometrial cancer. This second part of the study continues with the 
presentation of the activities of the Program, analyzes the human resources and 
materials needed to implement the Program, presents the strategies and the 
indicators specific for the implementation of the project.
METHODS AND RESULTS: A standardization of the diagnostic steps was proposed and 
the focus was on 4 key elements for the early diagnosis of endometrial cancer: 
The first steps were approached in the first part of the study and the second 
part of the study investigated the proper monitoring of precursor endometrial 
lesions or cancer associated endometrial lesions and screening high risk 
populations (Lynch syndrome, Cowden syndrome).
DISCUSSION: Improving medical practice based on diagnostic algorithms and 
programs improves and increases the lifetime expectancy, due to the fact that 
endometrial cancer is early diagnosed and treated before it causes serious 
health problems or even death.

PMCID: PMC4656945
PMID: 26664463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]661. J Med Life. 2015 Oct-Dec;8(4):552-62.

Clinical and pathological correlations in endometrial pathology.

Bohîlțea RE(1), Sajin M(1), Furtunescu F(1), Bohîlțea LC(1), Mihart A(1), Baros 
A(1), Anca AF(1).

Author information:
(1)"Carol Davila" University of Medicine and Pharmacy, Bucharest, Romania.

The incidence and mortality rate of endometrial cancer has been registering an 
increasing trend both in Romania and in the whole world. The paper's aim is to 
analyze the diagnostic approach of endometrial pathology in the University 
Emergency Hospital Bucharest, on a four years period. The medium age of the 
patients was of 50.51 ± 10.924 years, and the median age was of 48 years. The 
youngest patient suffering from endometrial cancer was of 30 years. Dilation and 
uterine curettage represent the main method used in the performance of 
endometrial biopsy, based on which the certitude etiologic histopathologic 
diagnosis was established in 68.4% of the patients with endometrial pathology. 
Hyperplasias represented half of the pathology (54.9%), most of them being 
without atypias. Endometrial carcinoma was identified in 19% of the patients. 
The diagnosis of the disease in IA stage represents 5.5% of the total 
endometrial cases and the diagnosis of the disease in the stage of its 
limitation to the uterus (stage IA, IB and IC) was of 64.2%. The endometrioid 
adenocarcinoma represents the most encountered histopathological form and the 
degree of tumor differentiation established for 68,15% of the cases was 
predominantly 1 and 2 (88%). The main symptom, which determines the patients' 
decision to go to the physician, is the abnormal uterine bleeding. 66% of the 
cases of endometrial cancer in the stage of the disease limited to the uterus 
are diagnosed in Romania based on the abnormal uterine bleeding. However, 34% of 
the cases are diagnosed in advanced stages, presenting a significantly low life 
expectancy.

PMCID: PMC4656971
PMID: 26664489 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


662. Hell J Nucl Med. 2015 Sep-Dec;18 Suppl 1:140.

Assessing an avoidable and dispensable reoperative entity: Self-referred flawed 
cleft lip and palate repair.

Foroglou P(1), Tsimponis A, Goula OC, Demiri E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Plastic Surgery, Medical Section-Faculty of Health 
Sciences-Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, Papageorgiou General Hospital, 
Ring Road - Nea Efkarpia, Thessaloniki 56403 - Greece. pforoglou@msn.com.

OBJECTIVE: Cleft lip and palate (CLP) is comprised within the wide range of 
congenital deformities of the maxillofacial region with an overall incidence on 
the increase from 1:1000 to 1:700 live births thus being the most common 
congenital birth error. Failure of the lateral and medial nasal processes to 
fuse with the anterior extension of maxillary processes and of the palatal 
shelves between the 4th and 8th gestational week results in cleft lip and 
palate. Clefts include different types with variable severity, confirming the 
complexity and unpredictable expression of cleft modality and have a 
multifactorial aetiology. Functional impairment, aesthetic disturbances and 
psychosocial effects are common sequalae in patients with cleft lip and palate. 
The main long-term morbidity of this condition may include dysfunctional speech, 
impaired hearing and communication, as well as dental problems. These 
complications are followed by unfavourable surgical outcome and aesthetic 
appearance, which all seem to affect this group of patients significantly and 
have an impact significantly both quality of life and healthcare. Treatment 
requirements of cleft patients are multifactorial and a multi-disciplinary 
approach and intervention at multiple levels is necessary. Yet, in this country, 
resources available to parents and consistent publicity given to this issue and 
its treatment are still inadequate in spite of the introduction of "Centres of 
Excellence" and Unified Hospitalization Coding or DRG equivalents to optimize 
health management. The multi-disciplinary approach to cleft management has been 
a reality for over a century while cleft treatment protocols are still being 
evaluated in order to optimise standards of cleft care. According to relevant 
guidelines primary surgical management of lip and palate defects is performed 
during the first 3 to 9 months of life. Secondary operations in the form of 
revisional lip and nose procedures are performed at later stages aiming with an 
aesthetically improved outcome. Indications for surgery include widened scars, 
lip contour deformities, shortened lips, poorly defined and flattened nasal tip, 
short columella and irregularities of the nostrils (narrow or high-riding) and 
cartilages. Wound dehiscence, contractures, vermilion notching, white roll 
malalignment and orovestibular fistulas are possible unfavourable results after 
cleft lip repair. The psychological status of children and adults with repaired 
cleft lip and palate has been the subject of extensive research especially 
regarding the way of their evaluation facial appearance, satisfaction and need 
for secondary corrective surgical procedures in the hope of increasing their 
self-esteem and self-confidence.
CONCLUSION: The aim of this study was to assess secondary CLP deformity 
management in an accredited present-day tertiary hospital facility with an 
existing infrastructure of a specialist teams however not formed in a 
multidisciplinary group. Equally, to answer questions of specific operation 
indications and choice as related to prior surgeries, hospitalization time and 
cost, provision of adequate preoperative information, correlation between 
paediatric and plastic surgeons and effect of post-plastic surgical care on 
patients' health and well-being. It also aims at presenting, beyond our current 
primary cleft lip and palate repair approach, appropriate indications and timing 
of secondary repair and achieved results.

PMID: 26665223


663. Acta Pol Pharm. 2015 Sep-Oct;72(5):1045-50.

ANALYSIS OF TRENDS IN LIFE EXPECTANCIES AND PER CAPITA GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT AS 
WELL AS PHARMACEUTICAL AND NON-PHARMACEUTICAL HEALTHCARE EXPENDITURES.

Hermanowski T, Bystrov V, Staszewska-Bystrova A, Szafraniec-Buryło SI, Rabczenko 
D, Kolasa K, Orlewska E.

Life expectancy is a common measure of population health. Macro-perspective 
based on aggregated data makes it possible to approximate the impact of 
different levels of pharmaceutical expenditure on general population health 
status and is often used in cross-country comparisons. The aim of the study was 
to determine whether there are long-run relations between life expectancy, total 
healthcare expenditures, and pharmaceutical expenditures in OECD countries. 
Common trends in per capita gross domestic products (GDPs) (excluding healthcare 
expenditures), per capita healthcare expenditures (excluding pharmaceutical 
expenditures), per capita pharmaceutical expenditures, and life expectancies of 
women and men aged 60 and 65 were analyzed across OECD countries. Short-term 
effect of pharmaceutical expenditure onto life expectancy was also estimated by 
regressing the deviations of life expectancies from their long-term trends onto 
the deviations of pharmaceutical and non-pharmaceutical health expenditures, as 
well as GDP from their trends. The dataset was created on the basis of OECD 
Health Data for 34 countries and the years 1991-2010. Life expectancy variables 
were used as proxies for the health outcomes, whereas the pharmaceutical and 
healthcare expenditures represented drug and healthcare consumption, 
respectively. In general, both expenditures and life expectancies tended to 
increase in all of the analyzed countries; however, the growth rates differed 
across the countries. The analysis of common trends indicated the existence of 
common long-term trends in life expectancies and per capita GDP as well as 
pharmaceutical and non-pharmaceutical healthcare expenditures. However, there 
was no evidence that pharmaceutical expenditures provided additional information 
about the long-term trends in life expectancies beyond that contained in the GDP 
series. The analysis based on the deviations of variables from their long-term 
trends allowed concluding that pharmaceutical expenditures significantly 
influenced life expectancies in the short run. Non-pharmaceutical healthcare 
expenditures were found to be significant in one out of four models (for life 
expectancy of women aged 65), while GDPs were found to be insignificant in all 
four models. The results of the study indicate that there are common long-term 
trends in life expectancies and per capita GDP as well as pharmaceutical and 
non-pharmaceutical healthcare expenditures. The available data did not reveal 
any cause- effect relationship. Other factors, for which the systematic data 
were not available, may have determined the increase in life expectancy in OECD 
countries. Significant positive short-term relations between pharmaceutical 
expenditures and life expectancies in OECD countries were found. The significant 
short-term effect of pharmaceutical expenditures onto life expectancy means that 
an increase of pharmaceutical expenditures above long-term trends would lead to 
a temporary increase in life expectancy above its corresponding long-term trend. 
However, this effect would not persist as pharmaceutical expenditures and life 
expectancy would converge to levels determined by the long-term trends.

PMID: 26665412 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


664. Z Gastroenterol. 2015 Dec;53(12):1447-95. doi: 10.1055/s-0041-107379. Epub
2015  Dec 14.

English language version of the S3-consensus guidelines on chronic pancreatitis: 
Definition, aetiology, diagnostic examinations, medical, endoscopic and surgical 
management of chronic pancreatitis.

Hoffmeister A, Mayerle J, Beglinger C(1), Büchler MW(2), Bufler P(3), Dathe 
K(4), Fölsch UR(5), Friess H(6), Izbicki J(7), Kahl S(8), Klar E(9), Keller 
J(10), Knoefel WT(11), Layer P(10), Loehr M(12), Meier R(13), Riemann JF(14), 
Rünzi M(15), Schmid RM(16), Schreyer A(17), Tribl B(18), Werner J(2), Witt 
H(19), Mössner J, Lerch MM; members of the guideline committee.

Collaborators: Adam U, Alexander A, Andrén-Sandberg Å, Beglinger C, Bufler P, 
Büchler MW, Cataldegirmen G, Dathe K, Dietrich CF, Emmrich J, Freise J, Friess 
HM, Fölsch UR, Gebel M, Glasbrenner B, Gloor B, Grothues D, Hackert T, Hamer O, 
Hardt PD, Heidecke CD, Henker J, Hoffmeister A, Hopt U, Izbicki J, Jung M, Kahl 
S, Keller J, Keller KM, Klabunde S, Klar E, Kleeberg J, Kleeff J, Knoefel WT, 
Lankisch PG, Layer P, Lerch MM, Löhr M, Löser C, Lüttges J, Malfertheiner P, 
Mayerle J, Meier R, Mössner J, Neuhaus H, Niederau C, Ockenga J, Pfützer R, Rau 
B, Riemann J, Rünzi M, Schmid R, Schneider A, Schoenberg M, Schreyer A, Schulz 
HJ, von Schweinitz D, Seifert H, Simon P, Strate T, Teich N, Treiber M, Tribl B, 
Werner J, Will U, Witt H, Wittekind C, Witzigmann H, Yekebas EF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University Hospital Basel, 
Switzerland.
(2)Department of General, Visceral and Transplantation Surgery, University 
Hospital, Heidelberg, Ruprecht Karls University, Heidelberg.
(3)Dr. von Haunersches Children's Hospital, Ludwig Maximilian University, 
Munich.
(4)German Society of Digestive and Metabolic Diseases (DGVS), Berlin.
(5)Department of General Internal Medicine, Christian Albrechts University, 
Kiel.
(6)Surgical Clinic and Polyclinic at the Rechts der Isar Hospital, Technical 
University, Munich.
(7)Department of General, Visceral and Thoracic Surgery at the University 
Medical Centre Hamburg-Eppendorf.
(8)Department of Internal Medicine, Specialisation Gastroenterology, Haematology 
and Oncology, Nephrology German Red Cross (DRK) Hospital Berlin-Köpenick.
(9)General Surgery, Thoracic, Vascular and Transplantation Surgery, University 
of Rostock.
(10)Department of Medicine, Israelitic Hospital Hamburg.
(11)Department of General, Visceral and Paediatric Surgery, University Hospital 
Dusseldorf of the Heinrich Heine University.
(12)Surgical Gastroenterology, Gastrocentrum, Karolinska University Hospital 
Huddinge.
(13)Department for Gastroenterology, Kanton Hospital Liestal, Medical University 
Clinic.
(14)Department of Medicine C at the Hospital of the City Ludwigshafen/Rhine 
gGmbH.
(15)Division of Gastroenterology and Metabolic Disease, Clinics of South Essen.
(16)Department of Medicine 2 at the Rechts der Isar Hospital, Technical 
