803. Nutr Hosp. 2016 Feb 16;33(1):37-42. doi: 10.20960/nh.v33i1.13.

Adecuación en el consumo de alimentos en ancianos y ancianos longevos de una 
ciudad en el sur de Brasil.

[Article in English]

Petter da Silva F(1), Beatriz Dallepiane L, Ramos Kirsten V, Maria Kirchner R.

Author information:
(1). nutricion@grupoaran.com.

Introduction: Life expectancy is increasing and becoming a characteristic 
phenomenon of developed countries and, increasingly, of developing countries, 
such as Brazil. The aging process causes changes of some physiological functions 
such as loss of smell, taste, loss of appetite, among other things that end up 
changing the food intake of these individuals. Objectives:This study aimed to 
assess food consumption of the young and long-lived elderly in a city in 
southern Brazil. Methods: A cross-sectional survey conducted through home visits 
in Palmeira das Missões - RS, Brazil. The sociodemographic, anthropometrical and 
dietary data were collected through questionnaires and 24-hour recall. The 
adequacy of nutrients was assessed according to the Dietary Reference Intakes. 
Data were analyzed using SPSS 18.0 software. Results: The study included 424 
older adults, 84,4% (n = 358) aged less than 80 years old and 15,6% (n = 66) 
older than 80. The intake of energy and protein was insufficient for both young 
elderly and the oldest. The consumption of vitamins and minerals has been 
insufficient in all seniors except for iron, which presented an excessive 
intake. There was a statistically significant difference between the elderly and 
oldest only for the consumption of lipids and vitamin B12. Conclusion: The 
majority of studies with elderly corroborate the results found in this article. 
An inadequate intake of nutrients can develop nutritional deficiencies, and 
consequently it can result in physiological and pathological changes which would 
compromise the functional capacity of the elderly. Energy consumption was 
insufficient and macronutrients were inadequate, both for the young elderly as 
for the oldest. Additionally, the consumption of vitamins and minerals was 
insufficient to everyone except the iron, which presented excessive intake for 
young and oldest elderly.

Publisher: INTRODUCCIÓN: la esperanza de vida está aumentando y convirtiéndose 
en un fenómeno característico de los países desarrollados y, cada vez más, de 
los países en desarrollo, como Brasil. El proceso de envejecimiento produce 
cambios en algunas funciones fisiológicas, como la pérdida del olfato o gusto o 
pérdida de apetito, entre otros, que terminan alterando la ingesta de alimentos 
de estos individuos.
OBJETIVOS: este estudio tuvo como objetivo evaluar el consumo de alimentos de 
los ancianos y de los ancianos más longevos en una ciudad del sur de Brasil.
MÉTODOS: un estudio transversal realizado mediante visitas a domicilio en 
Palmeira das Missões - RS, Brasil. Los datos sociodemográficos, antropométricos 
y dietéticos fueron recogidos a través de cuestionarios y recordatorio de 24 
horas. La adecuación de nutrientes se evaluó de acuerdo con las ingestas de 
referencia en la dieta. Los datos fueron analizados utilizando el software SPSS 
18.0.
RESULTADOS: el estudio incluyó a 424 adultos mayores, el 84.4% (n = 358) de 
ellos menores de 80 años y el 15.6% (n = 66) con más de 80 años. La ingesta de 
energía y proteínas fue insuficiente tanto para jóvenes adultos como para los 
más ancianos. El consumo de vitaminas y minerales ha sido insuficiente en todos 
los adultos mayores a excepción del hierro, que presentaba una ingesta excesiva. 
Hubo una diferencia estadísticamente significativa entre las personas de edad y 
mayores sólo en cuanto al consumo de lípidos y vitamina B12.
CONCLUSIÓN: la mayoría de los estudios con personas mayores corrobora los 
resultados obtenidos en este artículo. Una ingesta inadecuada de nutrientes 
puede dar lugar a deficiencias nutricionales y, por lo tanto, a cambios 
fisiológicos y patológicos que pondrían en peligro la capacidad funcional de los 
ancianos. El consumo de energía y de macronutrientes resultó insuficiente tanto 
para los ancianos como para los ancianos más longevos. Además, el consumo de 
vitaminas y minerales.

DOI: 10.20960/nh.v33i1.13
PMID: 27019240 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


804. F1000Res. 2016 Mar 23;5:F1000 Faculty Rev-389. doi: 
10.12688/f1000research.7506.1. eCollection 2016.

The importance of understanding individual differences in Down syndrome.

Karmiloff-Smith A(1), Al-Janabi T(2), D'Souza H(1), Groet J(3), Massand E(1), 
Mok K(4), Startin C(2), Fisher E(5), Hardy J(6), Nizetic D(7), Tybulewicz V(8), 
Strydom A(2).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Brain & Cognitive Development, Birkbeck University of London, 
London, WC1E 7HX, UK; The London Down Syndrome Consortium (LonDownS), University 
College London, London, UK.
(2)The London Down Syndrome Consortium (LonDownS), University College London, 
London, UK; Division of Psychiatry, University College London, London, W1T 7NF, 
UK.
(3)The London Down Syndrome Consortium (LonDownS), University College London, 
London, UK; The Blizard Institute, Barts & The London School of Medicine, Queen 
Mary University of London, London, E1 2AT, UK.
(4)The London Down Syndrome Consortium (LonDownS), University College London, 
London, UK; Department of Molecular Neuroscience, University College London 
Institute of Neurology, London, WC1N 3BG, UK; Division of Life Science, Hong 
Kong University of Science and Technology, Hong Kong SAR, China.
(5)The London Down Syndrome Consortium (LonDownS), University College London, 
London, UK; Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, Institute of Neurology, 
London, WC1N 3BG, UK.
(6)The London Down Syndrome Consortium (LonDownS), University College London, 
London, UK; Department of Molecular Neuroscience, University College London 
Institute of Neurology, London, WC1N 3BG, UK.
(7)The London Down Syndrome Consortium (LonDownS), University College London, 
London, UK; The Blizard Institute, Barts & The London School of Medicine, Queen 
Mary University of London, London, E1 2AT, UK; Lee Kong Chian School of 
Medicine, Nanyang Technological University, Biopolis, 138673, Singapore.
(8)The London Down Syndrome Consortium (LonDownS), University College London, 
London, UK; Francis Crick Institute, London, NW7 1AA, UK; Department of 
Medicine, Imperial College London, London, W12 0NN, UK.

In this article, we first present a summary of the general assumptions about 
Down syndrome (DS) still to be found in the literature. We go on to show how new 
research has modified these assumptions, pointing to a wide range of individual 
differences at every level of description. We argue that, in the context of 
significant increases in DS life expectancy, a focus on individual differences 
in trisomy 21 at all levels-genetic, cellular, neural, cognitive, behavioral, 
and environmental-constitutes one of the best approaches for understanding 
genotype/phenotype relations in DS and for exploring risk and protective factors 
for Alzheimer's disease in this high-risk population.

DOI: 10.12688/f1000research.7506.1
PMCID: PMC4806704
PMID: 27019699

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: All the authors declare 
that the writing of this paper took place in the absence of any commercial or 
financial relationships that could be construed as a potential conflict of 
interest. No competing interests were disclosed.


805. Pharmacogenomics J. 2017 Jun;17(3):286-300. doi: 10.1038/tpj.2015.94. Epub
2016  Mar 29.

Cost-effectiveness of using a gene expression profiling test to aid in 
identifying the primary tumour in patients with cancer of unknown primary.

Hannouf MB(1), Winquist E(2), Mahmud SM(3), Brackstone M(2)(4), Sarma S(1), 
Rodrigues G(5)(1), Rogan P(6)(2), Hoch JS(7)(8)(9), Zaric GS(10)(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics. Schulich School of Medicine and 
Dentistry, Western University, London, Ontario, Canada.
(2)Department of Oncology, Schulich School of Medicine and Dentistry, Western 
University, London, Ontario, Canada.
(3)Department of Community Health Sciences, College of Medicine, Faculty of 
Health Sciences, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada.
(4)Department of Surgery, Schulich School of Medicine and Dentistry, Western 
University, London, Ontario, Canada.
(5)Department of Radiation Oncology, London Regional Cancer Program, London, 
Canada.
(6)Department of Biochemistry, Schulich School of Medicine and Dentistry, 
Western University, London, Ontario, Canada.
(7)Institute of Health Policy Management and Evaluation, University of Toronto, 
Toronto, ON, Canada.
(8)Li Ka Shing Knowledge Institute, St. Michael's Hospital, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada.
(9)Canadian Centre for Applied Research in Cancer Control, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada.
(10)Ivey Business School, Western University, London, Ontario, Canada.

We aimed to investigate the cost-effectiveness of a 2000-gene-expression 
profiling (GEP) test to help identify the primary tumor site when 
clinicopathological diagnostic evaluation was inconclusive in patients with 
cancer of unknown primary (CUP). We built a decision-analytic-model to project 
the lifetime clinical and economic consequences of different clinical management 
strategies for CUP. The model was parameterized using follow-up data from the 
Manitoba Cancer Registry, cost data from Manitoba Health administrative 
databases and secondary sources. The 2000-GEP-based strategy compared to current 
clinical practice resulted in an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of 
$44,151 per quality-adjusted life years (QALY) gained. The total annual-budget 
impact was $36.2 million per year. A value-of-information analysis revealed that 
the expected value of perfect information about the test's clinical impact was 
$4.2 million per year. The 2000-GEP test should be considered for adoption in 
CUP. Field evaluations of the test are associated with a large societal benefit.

DOI: 10.1038/tpj.2015.94
PMID: 27019982 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


806. J Psychosom Res. 2016 Apr;83:40-5. doi: 10.1016/j.jpsychores.2016.02.004.
Epub  2016 Feb 17.

Treatment expectations influence the outcome of multidisciplinary rehabilitation 
treatment in patients with CFS.

Vos-Vromans DC(1), Huijnen IP(2), Rijnders LJ(3), Winkens B(4), Knottnerus 
JA(5), Smeets RJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Revant Rehabilitation Centre Breda, Brabantlaan 1, 4817 JW Breda, The 
Netherlands. Electronic address: d.vos@revant.nl.
(2)Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Research School CAPHRI Maastricht 
University, P.O. Box 616, 6200 MD Maastricht, The Netherlands; Department of 
Rehabilitation Medicine, Academic Hospital Maastricht, P.O. Box 5800, 6202 ZA 
Maastricht, The Netherlands; Adelante Centre of Expertise in Rehabilitation and 
Audiology, P.O. Box 88, 6430 AB Hoensbroek, The Netherlands.
(3)Revant Rehabilitation Centre Breda, Brabantlaan 1, 4817 JW Breda, The 
Netherlands.
(4)Department of Methodology and Statistics, Research School CAPHRI, Maastricht 
University, P.O. Box 616, 6200 MD Maastricht, The Netherlands.
(5)Department of General Practice, Research School CAPHRI, Maastricht 
University, P.O. Box 616, 6200 MD Maastricht, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVE: To improve the effectiveness of treatment in patients with chronic 
fatigue syndrome it is worthwhile studying factors influencing outcomes. The 
aims of this study were (1) to assess the association of expectancy and 
credibility on treatment outcomes, and (2) to identify baseline variables 
associated with treatment expectancy and credibility.
METHODS: 122 patients were included in a randomized controlled trial of whom 60 
received cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) and 62 multidisciplinary 
rehabilitation treatment (MRT). Expectancy and credibility were measured with 
the credibility and expectancy questionnaire. Outcomes of treatment, fatigue, 
and quality of life (QoL), were measured at baseline and post-treatment. 
Multiple linear regressions were performed to analyse associations.
RESULTS: In explaining fatigue and the physical component of the QoL, the effect 
of expectancy was significant for MRT, whereas in CBT no such associations were 
found. The main effect of expectancy on the mental component of QoL was not 
significant. For credibility, the overall effect on fatigue and the physical 
component of QoL was not significant. In explaining the mental component of QoL, 
the interaction between treatment and credibility was significant. However, the 
effects within each group were not significant. In the regression model with 
expectancy as dependent variable, only treatment centre appeared significantly 
associated. In explaining credibility, treatment centre, treatment allocation 
and depression contributed significantly.
CONCLUSIONS: For clinical practice it seems important to check the expectations 
of the patient, since expectations influence the outcome after MRT.

Copyright © 2016. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpsychores.2016.02.004
PMID: 27020075 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


807. J Tissue Viability. 2017 Feb;26(1):37-46. doi: 10.1016/j.jtv.2016.03.002.
Epub  2016 Mar 14.

Introduction to skin aging.

Tobin DJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Skin Sciences, Faculty of Life Sciences, University of Bradford, 
Bradford, West Yorkshire BD7 1DP, UK. Electronic address: 
d.tobin@bradford.ac.uk.

Cutaneous science has seen considerable development in the last 25 years, in 
part due to the Omics revolution, and the appreciation that this organ is 
hardwired into the body's key neuro-immuno-endocrine axes. Moreover, there is 
greater appreciation of how stratification of skin disorders will permit more 
targeted and more effective treatments. Against this has been how the remarkable 
extension in the average human life-span, though in the West at least, this 
parallels worrying increases in lifestyle-associated conditions like diabetes, 
skin cancer etc. These demographic trends bring greater urgency to finding 
clinical solutions for numerous age-related deficits in skin function caused by 
extrinsic and intrinsic factors. Mechanisms for aging skin include the actions 
of reactive oxygen species (ROS), mtDNA mutations, and telomere shortening, as 
well as hormonal changes. We have also significantly improved our understanding 
of how to harness the skin's considerable regenerative capacity e.g., via its 
remarkable investment of stem cell subpopulations. In this way we hope to 
develop new strategies to selectively target the skin's capacity to undergo 
optimal wound repair and regeneration. Here, the unsung hero of the skin 
regenerative power may be the humble hair follicle, replete with its compliment 
of epithelial, mesenchymal, neural and other stem cells. This review introduces 
the topic of human skin aging, with a focus on how maintenance of function in 
this complex multi-cell type organ is key for retaining quality of life into old 
age.

Copyright © 2016 Tissue Viability Society. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jtv.2016.03.002
PMID: 27020864 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


808. Chem Soc Rev. 2016 Jun 7;45(11):3122-44. doi: 10.1039/c6cs00051g. Epub 2016
Mar  29.

Chiral chemistry of metal-camphorate frameworks.

Gu ZG(1), Zhan C, Zhang J, Bu X.

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Structural Chemistry, Fujian Institute of Research on 
the Structure of Matter, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Fuzhou, Fujian 350002, 
China. zhj@fjirsm.ac.cn.

This critical review presents the various synthetic approaches and chiral 
chemistry of metal-camphorate frameworks (MCamFs), which are homochiral 
metal-organic frameworks (MOFs) constructed from a camphorate ligand. The 
interest in this unique subset of homochiral MOFs is derived from the many 
interesting chiral features for both materials and life sciences, such as 
asymmetrical synthesis or crystallization, homochiral structural design, chiral 
induction, absolute helical control and ligand handedness. Additionally, we 
discuss the potential applications of homochiral MCamFs. This review will be of 
interest to researchers attempting to design other homochiral MOFs and those 
engaged in the extension of MOFs for applications such as chiral recognition, 
enantiomer separation, asymmetric catalysis, nonlinear sensors and devices.

DOI: 10.1039/c6cs00051g
PMID: 27021070


809. Lancet. 2016 Apr 2;387(10026):1427-1480. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(16)00619-X.
 Epub 2016 Mar 24.

Public health and international drug policy.

Csete J(1), Kamarulzaman A(2), Kazatchkine M(3), Altice F(4), Balicki M(5), 
Buxton J(6), Cepeda J(7), Comfort M(8), Goosby E(9), Goulão J(10), Hart C(1), 
Kerr T(11), Lajous AM(12), Lewis S(13), Martin N(14), Mejía D(15), Camacho 
A(15), Mathieson D(16), Obot I(17), Ogunrombi A(18), Sherman S(7), Stone J(19), 
Vallath N(20), Vickerman P(19), Zábranský T(21), Beyrer C(22).

Author information:
(1)Columbia University, New York City, NY, USA.
(2)University of Malaya, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
(3)UN Special Envoy, HIV in Eastern Europe and Central Asia, Geneva, 
Switzerland.
(4)Yale University, New Haven, CT, USA.
(5)Warsaw, Poland.
(6)Central European University, Budapest, Hungary.
(7)Center for Public Health and Human Rights, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of 
Public Health, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(8)RTI International, Washington, DC, USA.
(9)University of California, San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, USA.
(10)Ministry of Health, Lisbon, Portugal.
(11)University of British Columbia, Center of Excellence in HIV/AIDS, Vancouver, 
BC, Canada.
(12)Centro de Investigación y Docencia Económicas, Mexico City, Mexico.
(13)AIDS-Free World, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(14)University of California, San Diego, San Diego, CA, USA.
(15)University of the Andes, Bogotá, Colombia.
(16)Human Rights Watch, Yangon, Myanmar.
(17)University of Uyo, Uyo, Nigeria.
(18)Youth Rise-Nigeria, Lagos, Nigeria.
(19)University of Bristol, Bristol, UK.
(20)Trivandrum Institute of Palliative Sciences, Trivandrum, India.
(21)Charles University, Prague, Czech Republic.
(22)Center for Public Health and Human Rights, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of 
Public Health, Baltimore, MD, USA. Electronic address: cbeyrer@jhu.edu.

Comment in
    Lancet. 2016 Jun 18;387(10037):2505.

In September 2015, the member states of the United Nations endorsed sustainable 
development goals (SDG) for 2030 that aspire to human rights-centered approaches 
to ensuring the health and well-being of all people. The SDGs embody both the UN 
Charter values of rights and justice for all and the responsibility of states to 
rely on the best scientific evidence as they seek to better humankind. In April 
2016, these same states will consider control of illicit drugs, an area of 
social policy that has been fraught with controversy, seen as inconsistent with 
human rights norms, and for which scientific evidence and public health 
approaches have arguably played too limited a role. The previous UN General 
Assembly Special Session (UNGASS) on drugs in 1998 – convened under the theme “a 
drug-free world, we can do it!” – endorsed drug control policies based on the 
goal of prohibiting all use, possession, production, and trafficking of illicit 
drugs. This goal is enshrined in national law in many countries. In pronouncing 
drugs a “grave threat to the health and well-being of all mankind,” the 1998 
UNGASS echoed the foundational 1961 convention of the international drug control 
regime, which justified eliminating the “evil” of drugs in the name of “the 
health and welfare of mankind.” But neither of these international agreements 
refers to the ways in which pursuing drug prohibition itself might affect public 
health. The “war on drugs” and “zero-tolerance” policies that grew out of the 
prohibitionist consensus are now being challenged on multiple fronts, including 
their health, human rights, and development impact. The Johns Hopkins – Lancet 
Commission on Drug Policy and Health has sought to examine the emerging 
scientific evidence on public health issues arising from drug control policy and 
to inform and encourage a central focus on public health evidence and outcomes 
in drug policy debates, such as the important deliberations of the 2016 UNGASS 
on drugs. The Johns Hopkins-Lancet Commission is concerned that drug policies 
are often colored by ideas about drug use and drug dependence that are not 
scientifically grounded. The 1998 UNGASS declaration, for example, like the UN 
drug conventions and many national drug laws, does not distinguish between drug 
use and drug abuse. A 2015 report by the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, 
by contrast, found it important to emphasize that “[d]rug use is neither a 
medical condition nor does it necessarily lead to drug dependence.” The idea 
that all drug use is dangerous and evil has led to enforcement-heavy policies 
and has made it difficult to see potentially dangerous drugs in the same light 
as potentially dangerous foods, tobacco, alcohol for which the goal of social 
policy is to reduce potential harms.
HEALTH IMPACT OF DRUG POLICY BASED ON ENFORCEMENT OF PROHIBITION: The pursuit of 
drug prohibition has generated a parallel economy run by criminal networks. Both 
these networks, which resort to violence to protect their markets, and the 
police and sometimes military or paramilitary forces that pursue them contribute 
to violence and insecurity in communities affected by drug transit and sales. In 
Mexico, the dramatic increase in homicides since the government decided to use 
military forces against drug traffickers in 2006 has been so great that it 
reduced life expectancy in the country. Injection of drugs with contaminated 
equipment is a well-known route of HIV exposure and viral hepatitis 
transmission. People who inject drugs (PWID) are also at high risk of 
tuberculosis. The continued spread of unsafe injection-linked HIV contrasts the 
progress that has been seen in reducing sexual and vertical transmission of HIV 
in the last three decades. The Commission found that that repressive drug 
policing greatly contributes to the risk of HIV linked to injection. Policing 
may be a direct barrier to services such as needle and syringe programmes (NSP) 
and use of non-injected opioids to treat dependence among those who inject 
opioids, known as opioid substitution therapy (OST). Police seeking to boost 
arrest totals have been found to target facilities that provide these services 
to find, harass, and detain large numbers of people who use drugs. Drug 
paraphernalia laws that prohibit possession of injecting equipment lead PWID to 
fear carrying syringes and force them to share equipment or dispose of it 
unsafely. Policing practices undertaken in the name of the public good have 
demonstrably worsened public health outcomes. Amongst the most significant 
impacts of pursuit of drug prohibition identified by the Commission with respect 
to infectious disease is the excessive use of incarceration as a drug-control 
measure. Many national laws impose lengthy custodial sentences for minor, 
non-violent drug offenses; people who use drugs (PWUD) are over-represented in 
prison and pretrial detention. Drug use and drug injection occur in prisons, 
though their occurrence is often denied by officials. HIV and hepatitis C virus 
(HCV) transmission occurs among prisoners and detainees, often complicated by 
co-infection with TB and in many places multidrug-resistant TB, and too few 
states offer prevention or treatment services in spite of international 
guidelines that urge comprehensive measures, including provision of injection 
equipment, for people in state custody. Mathematical modelling undertaken by the 
Commission illustrates that incarceration and high HCV risk in the 
post-incarceration period can contribute importantly to national HCV incidence 
amongst PWID in a range of countries with varying levels of incarceration, 
different average prison sentences, durations of injection, and OST coverage 
levels in prison and following release. For example, in Thailand where PWID may 
spend nearly half their injection careers in prison, an estimated 63% of 
incident HCV infection could occur in prison. In Scotland, where prison 
sentences are shorter for PWUD and OST coverage is relatively high in prison, an 
estimated 54% of incident HCV infection occurs in prison, but as much as 21% may 
occur in the high-risk post-release period. These results underscore the 
importance of alternatives to prison for minor drug offences, ensuring access to 
OST in prison, and a seamless link from prison services to OST in the community. 
The evidence also clearly demonstrates that drug law enforcement has been 
applied in a discriminatory way against racial and ethnic minorities in a number 
of countries. The US is perhaps the best documented but not the only case of 
racial biases in policing, arrest, and sentencing. In 2014, African American men 
were more than five times more likely than whites to be incarcerated in their 
lifetime, though there is no significant difference in rates of drug use among 
these populations. The impact of this bias on communities of people of color is 
inter-generational and socially and economically devastating. The Commission 
also found significant gender biases in current drug policies. Of women in 
prison and pretrial detention around the world, a higher percentage are detained 
because of drug infractions than is the case for men. Women involved in drug 
markets are often on the bottom rungs – as couriers or drivers – and may not 
have information about major traffickers to trade as leverage with prosecutors. 
Gender and racial biases have marked overlap, making this an intersectional 
threat to women of color, their children, families, and communities. In both 
prison and the community, HIV, HCV and TB programmes for PWUD – including 
testing, prevention and treatment – are gravely underfunded at the cost of 
preventable death and disease. In a number of middle-income countries where 
large numbers of PWUD live, HIV and TB programmes for PWUD that were expanded 
with support from the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, TB and Malaria have lost 
funding due to changes in the Fund’s eligibility criteria. There is an 
unfortunate failure to emulate the example of Western European countries that 
have eliminated unsafe injection-linked HIV as a public health problem by 
sustainably scaling up prevention and care and enabling minor offenders to avert 
prison. Political resistance to harm reduction measures dismisses strong 
evidence of their effectiveness and cost-effectiveness. Mathematical modeling 
shows that if OST, NSP and antiretroviral therapy for HIV are all available, 
even if the coverage of each of them is not over 50%, their synergy can lead to 
effective prevention in a foreseeable future. PWUD are often not seen to be 
worthy of costly treatments, or they are thought not to be able to adhere to 
treatment regimens in spite of evidence to the contrary. Lethal drug overdose is 
an important public health problem, particularly in light of rising consumption 
of heroin and prescription opioids in some parts of the world. Yet the 
Commission found that the pursuit of drug prohibition can contribute to overdose 
risks in numerous ways. It creates unregulated illegal markets in which it is 
impossible to control adulterants of street drugs that add to overdose risk. 
Several studies also link aggressive policing to rushed injection and overdose 
risk. People with a history of drug use, over-represented in prison because of 
prohibitionist policies, are at extremely high risk of overdose when released 
from state custody. Lack of ready access to OST also contributes to injection of 
opioids, and bans on supervised injection sites cut off an intervention that has 
proven very effective in reducing overdose deaths. Restrictive drug policies 
also contribute to unnecessary controls on naloxone, a medicine that can reverse 
overdose very effectively. Though a small percentage of PWUD will ever need 
treatment for drug dependence, that minority faces enormous barriers to humane 
and affordable treatment in many countries. There are often no national 
standards for quality of drug dependence treatment and no regular monitoring of 
practices. In too many countries, beatings, forced labor, and denial of health 
care and adequate sanitation are offered in the name of treatment, including in 
compulsory detention centres that are more like prisons than treatment 
facilities. Where there are humane treatment options, it is often the case that 
those most in need of it cannot afford it. In many countries, there is no 
treatment designed particularly for women, though it is known that women’s 
motivations for and physiological reactions to drug use differ from those of 
men. The pursuit of the elimination of drugs has led to aggressive and harmful 
practices targeting people who grow crops used in the manufacture of drugs, 
especially coca leaf, opium poppy, and cannabis. Aerial spraying of coca fields 
in the Andes with the defoliant glyphosate (N-(phosphonomethyl glycine) has been 
associated with respiratory and dermatological disorders and with miscarriages. 
Forced displacement of poor rural families who have no secure land tenure 
exacerbates their poverty and food insecurity and in some cases forces them to 
move their cultivation to more marginal land. Geographic isolation makes it 
difficult for state authorities to reach drug crop cultivators in public health 
and education campaigns and it cuts cultivators off from basic health services. 
Alternative development programmes meant to offer other livelihood opportunities 
have poor records and have rarely been conceived, implemented, or evaluated with 
respect to their impact on people’s health. Research on drugs and drug policy 
has suffered from the lack of a diversified funding base and assumptions about 
drug use and drug pathologies on the part of the dominant funder, the US 
government. At a time when drug policy discussions are opening up around the 
world, there is an urgent to bring the best of non-ideologically-driven health 
science, social science and policy analysis to the study of drugs and the 
potential for policy reform.
POLICY ALTERNATIVES IN REAL LIFE: Concrete experiences from many countries that 
have modified or rejected prohibitionist approaches in their response to drugs 
can inform discussions of drug policy reform. A number of countries, such as 
Portugal and the Czech Republic, decriminalised minor drug offenses years ago, 
with significant savings of money, less incarceration, significant public health 
benefits, and no significant increase in drug use. Decriminalisation of minor 
offenses along with scaling up low-threshold HIV prevention services enabled 
Portugal to control an explosive unsafe injection-linked HIV epidemic and likely 
enabled the Czech Republic to prevent one from happening. Where formal 
decriminalisation may not be an immediate possibility, scaling up health 
services for PWUD can demonstrate the value to society of responding with 
support rather than punishment to people who commit minor drug infractions. A 
pioneering OST program in Tanzania is encouraging communities and officials to 
consider non-criminal responses to heroin injection. In Switzerland and the city 
of Vancouver, Canada, dramatic improvements in access to comprehensive harm 
reduction services, including supervised injection sites and heroin-assisted 
treatment, transformed the health picture for PWUD. Vancouver’s experience also 
illustrates the importance of meaningful participation of PWUD in 
decision-making on policies and programmes affecting their communities.
CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS: Policies meant to prohibit or greatly suppress 
drugs present a paradox. They are portrayed and defended vigorously by many 
policy-makers as necessary to preserve public health and safety, and yet the 
evidence suggests they have contributed directly and indirectly to lethal 
violence, communicable disease transmission, discrimination, forced 
displacement, unnecessary physical pain, and the undermining of people’s right 
to health. Some would argue that the threat of drugs to society may justify some 
level of abrogation of human rights for protection of collective security, as is 
also foreseen by human rights law in case of emergencies. International human 
rights standards dictate that in such cases, societies still must choose the 
least harmful way to address the emergency and that emergency measures must be 
proportionate and designed specifically to meet transparently defined and 
realistic goals. The pursuit of drug prohibition meets none of these criteria. 
Standard public health and scientific approaches that should be part of 
policy-making on drugs have been rejected in the pursuit of prohibition. The 
idea of reducing the harm of many kinds of human behavior is central to public 
policy in the areas of traffic safety, tobacco and alcohol regulation, food 
safety, safety in sports and recreation, and many other areas of human life 
where the behavior in question is not prohibited. But explicitly seeking to 
reduce drug-related harms through policy and programmes and to balance 
prohibition with harm reduction is regularly resisted in drug control. The 
persistence of unsafe injection-linked HIV and HCV transmission that could be 
stopped with proven, cost-effective measures remains one of the great failures 
of the global responses to these diseases. Drug policy that is dismissive of 
extensive evidence of its own negative impact and of approaches that could 
improve health outcomes is bad for all concerned. Countries have failed to 
recognise and correct the health and human rights harms that pursuit of 
prohibition and drug suppression have caused and in so doing neglect their legal 
responsibilities. They readily incarcerate people for minor offenses but then 
neglect their duty to provide health services in custodial settings. They 
recognize uncontrolled illegal markets as the consequence of their policies, but 
they do little to protect people from toxic, adulterated drugs that are 
inevitable in illegal markets or the violence of organized criminals, often made 
worse by policing. They waste public resources on policies that do not 
demonstrably impede the functioning of drug markets, and they miss opportunities 
to invest public resources wisely in proven health services for people often too 
frightened to seek services. To move toward the balanced policy that UN member 
states have called for, we offer the following recommendations: 
Decriminalisation: Decriminalise minor, non-violent drug offenses – use, 
possession, and petty sale – and strengthen health and social-sector 
alternatives to criminal sanctions. Reducing violence and discrimination in 
policing: Reduce the violence and other harms of drug policing, including 
phasing out the use of military forces in drug policing, better targeting of 
policing on the most violent armed criminals, allowing possession of syringes, 
not targeting harm reduction services to boost arrest totals, and eliminating 
racial and ethnic discrimination in policing. Reducing harms: Ensure easy access 
for all who need them to harm reduction services as a part of responding to 
drugs, recognizing the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of scaling up and 
sustaining these services. OST, NSP, supervised injection sites, and access to 
naloxone – brought to a scale adequate to meet demand – should all figure in 
health services and should include meaningful participation of PWUD in planning 
and implementation. Harm reduction services are crucial in prison and pretrial 
detention and should be scaled up in these settings. The 2016 UNGASS should do 
better than the UN Commission on Narcotic Drugs (CND) in naming harm reduction 
explicitly and endorsing its centrality to drug policy. Treatment and care for 
PWUD: Prioritize PWUD in treatment for HIV, HCV, TB, and ensure that services 
are adequate to ensure access for all who need care. Ensure availability of 
humane and scientifically sound treatment for drug dependence, including 
scaled-up OST in the community as well as in prisons, rejecting compulsory 
detention and abuse in the name of treatment. Access to controlled medicines: 
Ensure access to controlled medicines, establishing inter-sectoral national 
authorities to determine levels of need and giving the World Health Organization 
(WHO) the resources to assist the International Narcotics Control Board (INCB) 
in using the best science to determine the level of need for controlled 
medicines in all countries. Gender-responsive policies: Reduce the negative 
impact of drug policy and law on women and their families, especially minimizing 
custodial sentences for women who commit non-violent offenses and developing 
appropriate health and social support, including gender-appropriate treatment of 
drug dependence, for those who need it. Crop production: Efforts to address drug 
crop production must take health into account. Aerial spraying of toxic 
herbicides should be stopped, and alternative development programmes should be 
part of integrated development strategies, developed and implemented in 
meaningful consultation with the people affected. Improve research: There is a 
need for a more diverse donor base to fund the best new science on drug policy 
experiences in a non-ideological way that, among other things, interrogates and 
moves beyond the excessive pathologising of drug use. UN governance of drug 
control: UN governance of drug policy must be improved, including by respecting 
WHO’s authority to determine the dangerousness of drugs. Countries should be 
urged to include high-level health officials in their delegations to CND. 
Improved representation of health officials in national delegations to CND 
would, in turn, be a likely result of giving health authorities an important 
day-to-day role in multi-sectoral national drug policy-making bodies. Better 
metrics: Health, development, and human rights indicators should be included in 
metrics to judge success of drug policy; WHO and UNDP should help formulate 
them. UNDP has already suggested that indicators such as access to treatment, 
rate of overdose deaths, and access to social welfare programmes for people who 
use drugs would be useful indicators. All drug policies should also be monitored 
and evaluated as to their impact on racial and ethnic minorities, women, 
children and young people, and people living in poverty. Scientific approach to 
regulated markets: Move gradually toward regulated drug markets and apply the 
scientific method to their evaluation. While regulated legal drug markets are 
not politically possible in the short term in some places, the harms of criminal 
markets and other consequences of prohibition catalogued in this report are 
likely to lead more countries (and more US states) to move gradually in that 
direction, a direction we endorse. As those decisions are taken, we urge 
governments and researchers to apply the scientific method and ensure 
independent, multidisciplinary and rigorous evaluation of regulated markets to 
draw lessons and inform improvements in regulatory practices, and to continue 
evaluating and improving. We urge health professionals in all countries to 
inform themselves and join debates on drug policy at all levels. True to the 
stated goals of the international drug control regime, it is possible to have 
drug policy that contributes to the health and well-being of humankind, but not 
without bringing to bear the evidence of the health sciences and the voices of 
health professionals.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(16)00619-X
PMCID: PMC5042332
PMID: 27021149 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


810. J Orthop Sci. 2016 May;21(3):366-72. doi: 10.1016/j.jos.2016.02.006. Epub
2016  Mar 22.

Lumbar spondylosis, lumbar spinal stenosis, knee pain, back muscle strength are 
associated with the locomotive syndrome: Rural population study in Japan.

Chiba D(1), Tsuda E(2), Wada K(2), Kumagai G(2), Sasaki E(2), Nawata A(3), 
Nakagomi S(3), Takahashi I(4), Nakaji S(4), Ishibashi Y(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Hirosaki University Graduate School of 
Medicine, Hirosaki, Japan; Department of Social Medicine, Hirosaki University 
Graduate School of Medicine, Hirosaki, Japan. Electronic address: 
dachiba@hirosaki-u.ac.jp.
(2)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Hirosaki University Graduate School of 
Medicine, Hirosaki, Japan.
(3)Medical Engineering Laboratory, Alcare Co., Ltd, Kyojima, Sumida-ku, Tokyo, 
Japan.
(4)Department of Social Medicine, Hirosaki University Graduate School of 
Medicine, Hirosaki, Japan.

OBJECTIVES: To comprehensively investigate the clinical and physical factors 
associating with locomotive syndrome (Loc-S); the locomotorium-disability for 
daily life.
METHODS: 647 volunteers participated (247 males, 400 females, Age: 58.4 ± 11.0, 
BMI: 22.5 ± 3.3). Three self-assessment questionnaires were administered: 1) 
"25-question Geriatric Locomotive Function Scale" (GFLS-25) for evaluating Loc-S 
(GLFS-25 ≥ 16 defined as Loc-S); 2) "diagnostic support tool for LSS" (LSS-DST) 
for evaluating the prevalence of lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS); 3) Knee injury 
and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (KOOS). Plain radiographs of the bilateral 
knees and lumbar spine were evaluated, and the severity of lumbar spondylosis 
(LS) and knee osteoarthritis (KOA) defined by Kellgren-Lawrence grade. Bone 
status was evaluated by using the osteo-sono assessment index (OSI) at the 
calcaneus. Isometric muscle strength of trunk and leg (Nm/kg, both extension and 
flexion) were evaluated. Linear regression analysis was performed to elucidate 
the factors concerned with GFLS-25 including age, sex, and BMI.
RESULTS: Thirty-nine subjects (6.0%, 13 males, 26 females) were defined as 
having Loc-S. Single regression model showed that age, height, BMI, skeletal 
muscle mass, OSI, LSS, KOOS, the severity of LS and KOA, and trunk- and 
leg-muscle strength were correlated with the degree of GLFS-25. Stepwise 
multiple regression model showed that sex, height, LSS, KOOS, the severity of 
LS, and back muscle strength were significantly correlated with that of GLFS-25.
CONCLUSION: In this cross-sectional study, pain status associated with LSS and 
knee joint, structural severity for LS, and back muscle strength primarily 
affected the degree of GFLS-25. For managing Loc-S, we must pay more intensive 
attention to these factors.

Copyright © 2016 The Japanese Orthopaedic Association. Published by Elsevier 
B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jos.2016.02.006
PMID: 27021251 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


811. Value Health. 2016 Mar-Apr;19(2):123-4. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2016.02.001.
Epub  2016 Mar 10.

Challenges in Using MCDA for Reimbursement Decisions on New Medicines?

Walker A(1).

Author information:
(1)Robertson Centre for Biostatistics, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, UK.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2016.02.001
PMID: 27021744 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


812. Value Health. 2016 Mar-Apr;19(2):125-37. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2015.12.016.
Epub  2016 Mar 7.

Multiple Criteria Decision Analysis for Health Care Decision Making--Emerging 
Good Practices: Report 2 of the ISPOR MCDA Emerging Good Practices Task Force.

Marsh K(1), IJzerman M(2), Thokala P(3), Baltussen R(4), Boysen M(5), Kaló Z(6), 
Lönngren T(7), Mussen F(8), Peacock S(9), Watkins J(10), Devlin N(11); ISPOR 
Task Force.

Author information:
(1)Evidera, London, UK. Electronic address: kevin.marsh@evidera.com.
(2)Department of Health Technology & Services Research, University of Twente, 
Enschede, The Netherlands.
(3)University of Sheffield, Sheffield, UK.
(4)Radboud Institute for Health Sciences, Nijmegen, The Netherlands.
(5)National Institute for Health and Care Excellence, Manchester, UK.
(6)Department of Health Policy and Health Economics, Eötvös Loránd University 
(ELTE), Budapest, Hungary; Syreon Research Institute, Budapest, Hungary.
(7)NDA Group AB, UK and Sweden.
(8)Janssen Pharmaceutical Companies of Johnson & Johnson, Antwerp, Belgium.
(9)Canadian Centre for Applied Research in Cancer Control, British Columbia 
Cancer Agency, Vancouver, BC, Canada; Leslie Diamond Chair in Cancer 
Survivorship, Simon Fraser University, Vancouver, Canada.
(10)Premera Blue Cross, Bothell, WA, USA; University of Washington, Seattle, WA, 
USA.
(11)Office of Health Economics, London, UK.

Health care decisions are complex and involve confronting trade-offs between 
multiple, often conflicting objectives. Using structured, explicit approaches to 
decisions involving multiple criteria can improve the quality of decision 
making. A set of techniques, known under the collective heading, multiple 
criteria decision analysis (MCDA), are useful for this purpose. In 2014, ISPOR 
established an Emerging Good Practices Task Force. The task force's first report 
defined MCDA, provided examples of its use in health care, described the key 
steps, and provided an overview of the principal methods of MCDA. This second 
task force report provides emerging good-practice guidance on the implementation 
of MCDA to support health care decisions. The report includes: a checklist to 
support the design, implementation and review of an MCDA; guidance to support 
the implementation of the checklist; the order in which the steps should be 
implemented; illustrates how to incorporate budget constraints into an MCDA; 
provides an overview of the skills and resources, including available software, 
required to implement MCDA; and future research directions.

Copyright © 2016 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2015.12.016
PMID: 27021745 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


813. Value Health. 2016 Mar-Apr;19(2):145-52. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2015.11.009.
Epub  2015 Dec 29.

Cost-Effectiveness of Incobotulinumtoxin-A with Flexible Treatment Intervals 
Compared to Onabotulinumtoxin-A in the Management of Blepharospasm and Cervical 
Dystonia.

Tilden D(1), Guarnieri C(2).

Author information:
(1)Thema Consulting Pty Ltd., Pyrmont, New South Wales, Australia.
(2)Thema Consulting Pty Ltd., Pyrmont, New South Wales, Australia. Electronic 
address: cguarnieri@thema.net.

BACKGROUND: Incobotulinumtoxin-A (Xeomin(®), Merz Pharmaceuticals, Sydney, New 
South Wales) is a formulation of botulinum neurotoxin type A that is free of 
complexing proteins.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost-effectiveness of incobotulinumtoxin-A administered 
with flexible treatment intervals compared to onabotulinumtoxin-A (Botox(®), 
Sydney, New South Wales) in blepharospasm and cervical dystonia from the 
perspective of Australian health care providers.
METHODS: A Markov state transition model was developed to perform a cost-utility 
analysis to compare the cost and health benefits of incobotulinumtoxin-A to that 
of onabotulinumtoxin-A. The cost-utility analysis compared incobotulinumtoxin-A 
treatment, given at minimum intervals of 6 weeks and maximum intervals of 20 
weeks, with onabotulinumtoxin-A treatment, given at minimum intervals of 12 
weeks and maximum intervals of 20 weeks. The Markov model consisted of three 
health states and followed patients in weekly cycles for 5 years. Only direct 
health care costs associated with the acquisition and administration of type A 
botulinum neurotoxins were included. Utility values were derived from a 
prospective, open-labeled cohort study. The primary outcome measure was the 
incremental cost per quality-adjusted life-year. Univariate and probabilistic 
sensitivity analyses were conducted.
RESULTS: Incobotulinumtoxin-A was cost-effective compared to onabotulinumtoxin-A 
in both blepharospasm and cervical dystonia, with an incremental 
cost/quality-adjusted life-year gained of A$ 25,588 and A$ 23,794, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Incobotulinumtoxin-A administered at flexible treatment intervals 
determined by the needs of the patient was found to be a cost-effective 
treatment option when compared to the administration of onabotulinumtoxin-A in 
the Australian health care system. The option to administer incobotulinumtoxin-A 
according to the needs of the patient resulted in patients experiencing symptoms 
for a fewer number of weeks compared to onabotulinumtoxin-A given at minimum 
12-week intervals.

Copyright © 2016 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2015.11.009
PMID: 27021747 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


814. Value Health. 2016 Mar-Apr;19(2):153-7. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2015.12.002.
Epub  2016 Jan 14.

The Cost-Effectiveness of Prostate Cancer Detection with the Use of Prostate 
Health Index.

Heijnsdijk EA(1), Denham D(2), de Koning HJ(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus Medical Center, Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands. Electronic address: e.heijnsdijk@erasmusmc.nl.
(2)Global Health Economics and Reimbursement, Beckman Coulter Inc., Brea, CA, 
USA.
(3)Department of Public Health, Erasmus Medical Center, Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Clinical trial results suggested that prostate-specific antigen 
(PSA) screening can reduce prostate cancer mortality. Nevertheless, because the 
specificity of the PSA test for cancer detection is low, it leads to many 
negative biopsies. The Beckman Coulter Prostate Health Index (PHI) testing 
demonstrates improved specificity compared with the PSA-only screening and 
therefore may improve the cost-effectiveness of prostate cancer detection.
OBJECTIVE: To examine the cost-effectiveness of adding PHI testing to improve 
cancer detection for men with elevated serum PSA.
METHODS: A microsimulation model, based on the results of the European 
Randomized Study of Screening for Prostate Cancer trial, was used to evaluate 
the effects of PSA screening and PHI reflex testing. We predicted the numbers of 
prostate cancers, negative biopsies, deaths, quality-adjusted life-years gained, 
and cost-effectiveness of both PSA (cutoff 3 ng/mL) and PHI (cutoff 25) testing 
methods for a European population, screened from age 50 to 75 years at 4-year 
intervals.
RESULTS: When the PHI test was added to the PSA screening, for men with a PSA 
between 3 and 10 ng/mL, the model predicted a 23% reduction in negative 
biopsies. This would lead to a 17% reduction in costs for diagnostics and 1% 
reduction in total costs for prostate cancer. The cost-effectiveness (3.5% 
discounted) was 11% better. Limitations found were the modeling assumptions on 
the sensitivity and specificity of PHI by tumor stage and cutoff values.
CONCLUSIONS: Compared with PSA-only screening, the use of a PHI test can 
substantially reduce the number of negative biopsies and improve the 
cost-effectiveness of prostate cancer detection.

Copyright © 2016 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2015.12.002
PMID: 27021748 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


815. Value Health. 2016 Mar-Apr;19(2):158-66. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2015.11.002.
Epub  2015 Dec 4.

Examining the Value of Menopausal Symptom Relief Among US Women.

Craig BM(1), Mitchell SA(2).

Author information:
(1)Health Outcomes and Behavior, Moffitt Cancer Center and University of South 
Florida, Tampa, Florida, USA. Electronic address: benjamin.craig@moffitt.org.
(2)Outcomes Research Branch, Healthcare Delivery Research Program, Division of 
Cancer Control & Population Sciences, National Cancer Institute, Rockville, 
Maryland, USA.

BACKGROUND: Menopausal symptoms can cause significant distress to women, yet 
little is known about the value women place on these symptoms.
METHODS: In April 2013, 3397 US women, aged 40 to 69 years, completed an online 
survey that included 30 paired comparisons. Specifically, respondents were shown 
two menopausal symptoms described using the Patient-Reported Outcomes Version of 
the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events and asked, "Which do you 
prefer?" From their choices, we estimated a generalized linear model to assess 
the values women place on symptom relief in terms of quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALYs).
RESULTS: Approximately half the respondents (1753 of 3397 [52%]) always 
preferred a reduced lifespan (up to 90 days) instead of experiencing menopausal 
symptoms at their worst for 30 days. For most of the symptoms (248 of 263 
[94%]), including low-grade events, QALYs were significantly reduced (P < 0.05). 
The value women placed on relief ranged widely by symptom domain: the relief 
from depression, problems with memory, headache, pain in abdomen, problems with 
anger, and vomiting were the most valuable.
CONCLUSIONS: Overall, the value women place on menopausal symptom relief is 
surprisingly high. As the first national study to directly ask women about their 
preferences and to estimate the value of menopausal symptom relief on a QALY 
scale, this work provides critical evidence for health outcomes research in 
midlife women and can be applied in the evaluation of treatments that reduce or 
eliminate menopausal symptoms. This work also provides proof-of-concept for an 
approach to value Patient-Reported Outcomes Version of the Common Terminology 
Criteria for Adverse Events responses on a QALY scale.

Copyright © 2016 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2015.11.002
PMID: 27021749 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


816. Value Health. 2016 Mar-Apr;19(2):167-75. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2015.11.010.
Epub  2016 Jan 28.

Comprehensively Measuring Health-Related Subjective Well-Being: Dimensionality 
Analysis for Improved Outcome Assessment in Health Economics.

de Vries M(1), Emons WH(2), Plantinga A(3), Pietersma S(4), van den Hout WB(4), 
Stiggelbout AM(4), van den Akker-van Marle ME(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Psychology, Tilburg Institute for Behavioral Economics 
Research, Tilburg University, Tilburg, The Netherlands; Radboud University, 
Institute for Computing and Information Sciences (iCIS), Data Science 
Department, Nijmegen, The Netherlands.
(2)Faculty of Social and Behavioural Sciences, Department of Methodology and 
Statistics, Tilburg University, Tilburg, The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Social Psychology, Tilburg Institute for Behavioral Economics 
Research, Tilburg University, Tilburg, The Netherlands.
(4)Department of Medical Decision Making, Leiden University Medical Center, 
Leiden, The Netherlands.
(5)Department of Medical Decision Making, Leiden University Medical Center, 
Leiden, The Netherlands. Electronic address: vandenakker@lumc.nl.

BACKGROUND: Allocation of inevitably limited financial resources for health care 
requires assessment of an intervention's effectiveness. Interventions likely 
affect quality of life (QOL) more broadly than is measurable with commonly used 
health-related QOL utility scales. In line with the World Health Organization's 
definition of health, a recent Delphi procedure showed that assessment needs to 
put more emphasis on mental and social dimensions.
OBJECTIVE: To identify the core dimensions of health-related subjective 
well-being (HR-SWB) for a new, more comprehensive outcome measure.
METHODS: We formulated items for each domain of an initial Delphi-based set of 
21 domains of HR-SWB. We tested these items in a large sample (N = 1143) and 
used dimensionality analyses to find a smaller number of latent factors.
RESULTS: Exploratory factor analysis suggested a five-factor model, which 
explained 65% of the total variance. Factors related to physical independence, 
positive affect, negative affect, autonomy, and personal growth. Correlations 
between the factors ranged from 0.19 to 0.59. A closer inspection of the factors 
revealed an overlap between the newly identified core dimensions of HR-SWB and 
the validation scales, but the dimensions of HR-SWB also seemed to reflect 
additional aspects. This shows that the dimensions of HR-SWB we identified go 
beyond the existing health-related QOL instruments.
CONCLUSIONS: We identified a set of five key dimensions to be included in a new, 
comprehensive measure of HR-SWB that reliably captures these dimensions and 
fills in the gaps of the existent measures used in economic evaluations.

Copyright © 2016 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2015.11.010
PMID: 27021750 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


817. Value Health. 2016 Mar-Apr;19(2):185-91. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2015.12.015.
Epub  2016 Feb 6.

Cost-Effectiveness of a Collaborative Care Depression and Anxiety Treatment 
Program in Patients with Acute Cardiac Illness.

Celano CM(1), Healy B(2), Suarez L(3), Levy DE(4), Mastromauro C(3), Januzzi 
JL(2), Huffman JC(5).

Author information:
(1)Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA; Department of Psychiatry, 
Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, USA. Electronic address: 
ccelano@partners.org.
(2)Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA; Biostatistics Center, Massachusetts 
General Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.
(4)Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA; Mongan Institute for Health Policy, 
Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.
(5)Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA; Department of Psychiatry, 
Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To use data from a randomized trial to determine the 
cost-effectiveness of a collaborative care (CC) depression and anxiety treatment 
program and to assess effects of the CC program on health care utilization.
METHODS: The CC intervention's impact on health-related quality of life, 
depression-free days (DFDs), and anxiety-free days (AFDs) over the 24-week 
postdischarge period was calculated and compared with the enhanced usual care 
(EUC) condition using independent samples t tests and random-effects regression 
models. Costs for both the CC and EUC conditions were calculated on the basis of 
staff time, overhead expenses, and treatment materials. Using this information, 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios were calculated. A cost-effectiveness 
acceptability plot was created using nonparametric bootstrapping with 10,000 
replications, and the likelihood of the CC intervention's cost-effectiveness was 
assessed using standard cutoffs. As a secondary analysis, we determined whether 
the CC intervention led to reductions in postdischarge health care utilization 
and costs.
RESULTS: The CC intervention was more costly than the EUC intervention ($209.86 
vs. $34.59; z = -11.71; P < 0.001), but was associated with significantly 
greater increases in quality-adjusted life-years (t = -2.49; P = 0.01) and DFDs 
(t = -2.13; P = 0.03), but not AFDs (t = -1.92; P = 0.057). This translated into 
an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of $3337.06 per quality-adjusted 
life-year saved, $13.36 per DFD, and $13.74 per AFD. Compared with the EUC 
intervention, the CC intervention was also associated with fewer emergency 
department visits but no differences in overall costs.
CONCLUSIONS: This CC intervention was associated with clinically relevant 
improvements, was cost-effective, and was associated with fewer emergency 
department visits in the 24 weeks after discharge.

Copyright © 2016. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2015.12.015
PMID: 27021752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


818. Value Health. 2016 Mar-Apr;19(2):226-32. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2015.11.011.
Epub  2016 Jan 21.

