Sandiford P(1)(2), Consuelo DJJV(3), Rouse P(4).

Author information:
(1)Planning Funding and Outcomes, Auckland and Waitemata District Health Boards, 
New Zealand.
(2)School of Population Health, University of Auckland, New Zealand.
(3)Centro de Investigaciones de Economía y Gestión en Salud, Universidad 
Politécnica de Valencia, Spain.
(4)Accounting and Finance, University of Auckland Business School, New Zealand.

OBJECTIVE: Use data envelopment analysis (DEA) to measure the efficiency of New 
Zealand's District Health Boards (DHBs) at achieving gains in Māori and European 
life expectancy (LE).
METHODS: Using life tables for 2006 and 2013, a two-output DEA model established 
the production possibility frontier for Māori and European LE gain. Confidence 
limits were generated from a 10,000 replicate Monte Carlo simulation.
RESULTS: Results support the use of LE change as an indicator of DHB efficiency. 
DHB mean income and education were related to initial LE but not to its rate of 
change. LE gains were unrelated to either the initial level of life expectancy 
or to the proportion of Māori in the population. DHB efficiency ranged from 79% 
to 100%. Efficiency was significantly correlated with DHB financial performance.
CONCLUSION: Changes in LE did not depend on the social characteristics of the 
DHB. The statistically significant association between efficiency and financial 
performance supports its use as an indicator of managerial effectiveness. 
Implications for public health: Efficient health systems achieve better 
population health outcomes. DEA can be used to measure the relative efficiency 
of sub-national health authorities at achieving health gain and equity outcomes.

© 2016 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1111/1753-6405.12618
PMID: 27960231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


378. Mol Cell Neurosci. 2017 Apr;80:180-191. doi: 10.1016/j.mcn.2016.12.001. Epub
 2016 Dec 11.

High content analysis in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.

Rinaldi F(1), Motti D(1), Ferraiuolo L(2), Kaspar BK(3).

Author information:
(1)Center for Gene Therapy, Nationwide Children's Hospital, Columbus, OH, USA.
(2)Center for Gene Therapy, Nationwide Children's Hospital, Columbus, OH, USA; 
Department of Neuroscience, Sheffield Institute of Translational Neuroscience, 
University of Sheffield, UK.
(3)Center for Gene Therapy, Nationwide Children's Hospital, Columbus, OH, USA; 
Department of Neuroscience, The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH, USA; 
Department of Pediatrics, College of Medicine and Public Health, The Ohio State 
University, Columbus, OH, USA. Electronic address: 
Brian.Kaspar@nationwidechildrens.org.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a devastating disease characterized by 
the progressive loss of motor neurons. Neurons, astrocytes, oligodendrocytes and 
microglial cells all undergo pathological modifications in the onset and 
progression of ALS. A number of genes involved in the etiopathology of the 
disease have been identified, but a complete understanding of the molecular 
mechanisms of ALS has yet to be determined. Currently, people affected by ALS 
have a life expectancy of only two to five years from diagnosis. The search for 
a treatment has been slow and mostly unsuccessful, leaving patients in desperate 
need of better therapies. Until recently, most pre-clinical studies utilized the 
available ALS animal models. In the past years, the development of new protocols 
for isolation of patient cells and differentiation into relevant cell types has 
provided new tools to model ALS, potentially more relevant to the disease itself 
as they directly come from patients. The use of stem cells is showing promise to 
facilitate ALS research by expanding our understanding of the disease and help 
to identify potential new therapeutic targets and therapies to help patients. 
Advancements in high content analysis (HCA) have the power to contribute to move 
ALS research forward by combining automated image acquisition along with digital 
image analysis. With modern HCA machines it is possible, in a period of just a 
few hours, to observe changes in morphology and survival of cells, under the 
stimulation of hundreds, if not thousands of drugs and compounds. In this 
article, we will summarize the major molecular and cellular hallmarks of ALS, 
describe the advancements provided by the in vitro models developed in the last 
few years, and review the studies that have applied HCA to the ALS field to 
date.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mcn.2016.12.001
PMCID: PMC5393940
PMID: 27965018 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


379. J Pain. 2017 Apr;18(4):405-414. doi: 10.1016/j.jpain.2016.11.014. Epub 2016
Dec  11.

A Trial-Based Economic Evaluation Comparing Spinal Cord Stimulation With Best 
Medical Treatment in Painful Diabetic Peripheral Neuropathy.

Slangen R(1), Faber CG(2), Schaper NC(3), Joosten EA(4), van Dongen RT(5), 
Kessels AG(6), van Kleef M(4), Dirksen CD(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology and Pain Medicine, Maastricht University Medical 
Centre+, Maastricht, The Netherlands. Electronic address: 
rachel.slangen@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Neurology, Maastricht University Medical Centre+, Maastricht, 
The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Internal Medicine, Maastricht University Medical Centre, 
Maastricht, The Netherlands.
(4)Department of Anesthesiology and Pain Medicine, Maastricht University Medical 
Centre+, Maastricht, The Netherlands.
(5)Department of Anesthesiology, Pain, and Palliative Care, Radboud University 
Medical Centre, Nijmegen, The Netherlands.
(6)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Medical Technology, Maastricht 
University Medical Centre+, Maastricht, The Netherlands.
(7)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Medical Technology, Maastricht 
University Medical Centre+, Maastricht, The Netherlands; CAPHRI School of Public 
Health and Primary Care, Maastricht University, Maastricht, The Netherlands.

The objective was to perform an economic evaluation comparing spinal cord 
stimulation (SCS) in combination with best medical treatment (BMT) with BMT in 
painful diabetic peripheral neuropathy patients. Alongside a prospective 
2-center randomized controlled trial, involving 36 painful diabetic peripheral 
neuropathy patients with severe lower limb pain not responding to conventional 
therapy, an economic evaluation was performed. Incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratios were based on: 1) societal costs and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), 
and 2) direct health care costs and the number of successfully treated patients, 
respectively, both with a time horizon of 12 months. Bootstrap and secondary 
analyses were performed to address uncertainty. Total societal cost amounted to 
€26,539.18 versus €5,313.45 per patient in the SCS and BMT group, respectively. 
QALYs were .58 versus .36 and the number of successfully treated patients was 
55% versus 7% for the SCS and BMT group, respectively. This resulted in 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios of €94,159.56 per QALY and €34,518.85 per 
successfully treated patient, respectively. Bootstrap analyses showed that the 
probability of SCS being cost-effective ranges from 0 to 46% with willingness to 
pay threshold values ranging between €20,000 and €80,000 for a QALY. Secondary 
analyses showed that cost-effectiveness of SCS became more favorable after 
correcting for baseline cost imbalance between the 2 groups, extending the 
depreciation period of SCS material to 4 years, and extrapolation of the data up 
to 4 years. Although SCS was considerably more effective compared with BMT, the 
substantial initial investment that is required resulted in SCS not being 
cost-effective in the short term. Cost-effectiveness results were sensitive to 
baseline cost imbalances between the groups and the depreciation period of the 
SCS material.
PERSPECTIVE: Painful diabetic peripheral neuropathy is a common complication of 
diabetes mellitus and the humanistic and economic burden is high. This article 
presents the cost-effectiveness of SCS in patients suffering from painful 
diabetic peripheral neuropathy from a societal and health care perspective with 
a time horizon of 12 months.

Copyright © 2016 American Pain Society. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpain.2016.11.014
PMID: 27965045 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


380. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2017 Jan 29;483(1):759-764. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbrc.2016.12.069. Epub 2016 Dec 11.

Lanthionine ketimine ester promotes locomotor recovery after spinal cord injury 
by reducing neuroinflammation and promoting axon growth.

Kotaka K(1), Nagai J(2), Hensley K(3), Ohshima T(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science and Medical Bioscience, Graduate School of 
Advanced Science and Engineering, Waseda University, TWIns, Tokyo, 162-8480, 
Japan.
(2)Department of Life Science and Medical Bioscience, Graduate School of 
Advanced Science and Engineering, Waseda University, TWIns, Tokyo, 162-8480, 
Japan; Research Fellow of Japan Society for the Promotion of Science, Japan.
(3)Department of Pathology, University of Toledo, College of Medicine, Toledo, 
OH, USA.
(4)Department of Life Science and Medical Bioscience, Graduate School of 
Advanced Science and Engineering, Waseda University, TWIns, Tokyo, 162-8480, 
Japan. Electronic address: ohshima@waseda.jp.

The mammalian central nervous system (CNS) has limited regenerative ability 
after injury, largely due to scar formation and axonal growth inhibitors. 
Experimental suppression of neuroinflammation encourages recovery from spinal 
cord injury (SCI), yet practical means for pharmacologically treating SCI have 
remained elusive. Lanthionine ketimine (LK) is a natural brain sulfur amino acid 
metabolite with demonstrated anti-neuroinflammatory and neurotrophic activities. 
LK and its synthetic brain-penetrating ethyl ester (LKE) promote growth 
factor-dependent neurite extension in cultured cell and suppress microglial 
activation in animal models of neurodegeneration. Thus far however, LKE has not 
been explored as a potential therapy for SCI. The present study investigated the 
hypothesis that systemic LKE could improve motor functional recovery after SCI 
in a mouse model. Intraperitoneal administration of LKE (100 mg/kg/d) after 
near-complete transect of spinal cord at the T7 level significantly improved 
motor function over a 4-week time course. Vehicle-treated mice, in contrast, 
demonstrated negligible functional recovery. In terms of histology, LKE 
treatment reduced pro-neuroinflammatory microglia/macrophage activation 
evidenced by quantitative Iba1 labeling and shifted the microglial phenotype 
toward a more neurotrophic M2 character evidenced by changes in the M2 marker 
arginase-1. This was correlated with less dense scar formation and more 
extensive axonal regrowth across the transection site demonstrated by 
5-hydroxytryptamine (5HT) immunolabeling of raphespinal tract axons. These data 
provide evidence that LKE or similar compounds have potential therapeutic value 
for recovery after certain forms of SCI.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2016.12.069
PMID: 27965088 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


381. Pilot Feasibility Stud. 2016 Mar 9;2:15. doi: 10.1186/s40814-016-0056-0. 
eCollection 2016.

Protocol-based management of older adults with hip fractures in Delhi, India: a 
feasibility study.

Yadav L(1), Tewari A(1), Jain A(2), Essue B(3), Peiris D(4), Woodward M(5), 
Kotwal P(6), Lindley R(7), Jan S(8), Chantler T(9), Webster P(10), Norton 
R(11)(12), Rath S(13).

Author information:
(1)The George Institute for Global Health, 219-221, Splendor Forum, Plot No. 3, 
Jasola District Centre, New Delhi, 110025 India.
(2)Department of Orthopaedics, University College of Medical Sciences, New 
Delhi, India.
(3)The George Institute for Global Health, Sydney, Australia.
(4)Primary Health Care Research, The George Institute for Global Health & Sydney 
Medical School, University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia.
(5)Epidemiology & Biostatistics, The George Institute for Global Health & 
Statistics & Epidemiology, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(6)Department of Orthopaedics, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), 
New Delhi, India.
(7)The George Institute for Global Health & Geriatric Medicine, Sydney Medical 
School, University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia.
(8)Health Economics, The George Institute for Global Health & Sydney Medical 
School, University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia.
(9)London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine, London, UK.
(10)Nuffield Department of Population Sciences, School of Public Health, 
University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(11)The George Institute for Global Health, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(12)The George Institute for Global Health, University of Sydney, Sydney, 
Australia.
(13)Global Surgery, The George Institute for Global Health, University of 
Oxford, Oxford, OX1 3BD UK.

BACKGROUND: Worldwide hip fractures are projected to increase from 1.7 million 
in 1990 to 6.3 million in 2050. In India, conservative estimates suggest an 
annual incidence of 600,000 osteoporotic hip fractures and this is expected to 
increase significantly due to ageing and increase life expectancy. 
Protocol-based 'care pathways' for the management of adults, over 60 years of 
age, with hip fractures in high-income countries has resulted in decreased 
mortality rates, early hospital discharge, improved quality of life and 
reduction in healthcare costs. The study objectives are to determine 
appropriateness, acceptability and feasibility of adopting best-practice 
guideline or protocol-based care for the management of hip fractures among older 
adults in India. The study will also identify barriers and facilitators in 
recruiting patients and retention till the agreed follow-up period.
METHODS: This will be a mixed-methods prospective cohort study. The quantitative 
data collection will involve recruitment of consecutive patients aged >50 years 
with an X-ray-confirmed hip fracture admitted in four tertiary care hospitals in 
Delhi, India, over a 2-month period. The quantitative data will be collected at 
three points: from patients at admission to hospital, from medical records at 
discharge and by telephone interviews with patients at 30 days post hip 
fracture. Qualitative data collection will involve key informant interviews, 
conducted with clinical leads and focus group discussions, conducted with groups 
of healthcare providers and patients and/or their carers. COM-B theoretical 
framework (capability, opportunity, motivation and behaviour) will be used to 
explore healthcare providers' behaviour in order to facilitate development and 
implementation of appropriate integrated care pathway for management of older 
adults with hip fractures in India.
DISCUSSION: The proposed study will identify gaps in best practice in the 
management of older people with hip fractures in tertiary care hospitals in 
Delhi and document barriers and facilitators to the implementation of 
protocol-based care through recording the contextual realities of the health 
systems and care-seeking behaviours. Insights into these factors will be used to 
facilitate the development of protocol-based management of older people with hip 
fractures that is appropriate, context specific and acceptable by stakeholders 
in a low- and middle-income country setting, such as India.

DOI: 10.1186/s40814-016-0056-0
PMCID: PMC5154050
PMID: 27965835


382. Pilot Feasibility Stud. 2016 Jul 21;2:34. doi: 10.1186/s40814-016-0077-8. 
eCollection 2016.

Feasibility and acceptability of a nursing intervention with family caregiver on 
self-care among heart failure patients: a randomized pilot trial.

Cossette S(1), Belaid H(2), Heppell S(3), Mailhot T(2), Guertin MC(4).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Nursing, University of Montreal, Montreal Heart Institute Research 
Center S-2510, 5000 Belanger Street, Montreal, Quebec H1T 1C8 Canada.
(2)Heart Failure Clinic, Montreal Heart Institute Research Center S-2490, 5000 
Belanger Street, Montreal, Quebec H1T 1C8 Canada.
(3)Montreal Heart Institute, 5000 Belanger Street, Montreal, Quebec H1T 1C8 
Canada.
(4)Montreal Health Innovations Coordinating Center, Suite 400, 4100 Rue Molson, 
Montréal, Québec H1Y 3N1 Canada.

BACKGROUND: Self-care practices in heart failure (HF) contribute to quality of 
life, symptom stabilization, and extended life expectancy. However, adherence to 
practices such as liquid and salt restriction or symptom monitoring require high 
motivation on a daily basis. The aim was to assess the feasibility, 
acceptability, and potential effectiveness of a nursing intervention with family 
caregivers, aimed at improving self-care practice of HF patients.
METHODS: This pilot study involved 32 HF patient-caregiver dyads (16/group) 
randomized to an experimental (EG) or control group (CG). The intervention, 
based on the Self-Determination Theory, was designed to enhance patients' 
autonomy and motivation in self-care practices, by involving their caregivers' 
support. Five encounters were planned with the EG dyads-two face-to-face during 
hospitalization and three by telephone after discharge. The feasibility of 
delivering the protocol was evaluated as well as the acceptability of the 
intervention. The potential effectiveness of the intervention was assessed based 
on patient outcomes, including general self-care management and self-care 
specific to HF, perceived competence to manage HF, autonomous motivation 
(A-motivation, external extrinsic motivation, internal extrinsic motivation, and 
intrinsic motivation), and perceived support from the caregiver. Caregiver 
outcomes included level of support provided to the patient.
RESULTS: Despite recruitment challenges, the intervention was feasible, with 12 
of the 16 dyads receiving all 5 encounters delivered per protocol. The 4 other 
dyads received the two hospital encounters, but at least 1 of the 3 
post-discharge planned telephone encounters was not feasible because the 
patients had been re-hospitalized or was deceased. Participant's satisfaction 
with the intervention was high. Outcomes favoring the EG include self-care 
specific to HF, internal extrinsic motivation, intrinsic motivation, and 
caregiver's feeling that they provide a higher level of support.
CONCLUSIONS: Caregiver involvement was found to be both a feasible and 
acceptable means of supporting self-care practice in HF patients. This approach 
presents a potential avenue for enhancing patients' efforts in this regard. 
However, this pilot study offers preliminary findings only, which need to be 
replicated in a phase 3 clinical trial.

DOI: 10.1186/s40814-016-0077-8
PMCID: PMC5154064
PMID: 27965853


383. Pilot Feasibility Stud. 2016 Aug 4;2:42. doi: 10.1186/s40814-016-0083-x. 
eCollection 2016.

Behavioural activation written self-help to improve mood, wellbeing and quality 
of life in people with dementia supported by informal carers (PROMOTE): a study 
protocol for a single-arm feasibility study.

Farrand P(1), Woodford J(1), Llewellyn D(2), Anderson M(1), Venkatasubramanian 
S(1), Ukoumunne OC(3), Adlam A(1), Dickens C(2).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Education Development and Research (CEDAR), Psychology: College of 
Life and Environmental Sciences, University of Exeter, Washington Singer Labs, 
Perry Road, Exeter, EX4 4QG UK.
(2)University of Exeter Medical School, St. Luke's Campus, Exeter, EX1 2LU UK.
(3)NIHR CLAHRC South West Peninsula, University of Exeter Medical School, St. 
Luke's Campus, Exeter, EX1 2LU UK.

BACKGROUND: Increases in life expectancy have resulted in a global rise in 
dementia prevalence. Dementia is associated with poor wellbeing, low quality of 
life and increased incidence of mental health difficulties such as low mood or 
depression. However, currently, there is limited access to evidence-based 
psychological interventions for people with dementia experiencing low mood and 
poor wellbeing. Behavioural activation-based self-help, supported by informal 
carers and guided by mental health professionals, may represent an effective and 
acceptable solution.
METHODS/DESIGN: The present study is a phase II (feasibility) single-arm trial 
informed by the Medical Research Council complex interventions research methods 
framework. Up to 50 dementia participant/informal carer dyads will be recruited 
from a variety of settings including primary care, dementia-specific health 
settings and community outreach. People living with dementia will receive 
behavioural activation-based self-help and be supported by their informal carer 
who has received training in the skills required to support the self-help 
approach. In turn, during the use of the intervention, the informal carer will 
be guided by mental health professionals to help them work through the materials 
and problem solve any difficulties. Consistent with the objectives of 
feasibility studies, outcomes relating to recruitment from different settings, 
employment of different recruitment methods, attrition, data collection 
procedures, clinical delivery and acceptability of the intervention will be 
examined. Clinical outcomes for people with dementia (symptoms of depression and 
quality of life) and informal carers (symptoms of depression and anxiety, carer 
burden and quality of life) will be measured pre-treatment and at 3 months 
post-treatment allocation.
DISCUSSION: This study will examine the feasibility and acceptability of a novel 
behavioural activation-based self-help intervention designed to promote 
wellbeing and improve low mood in people living with dementia, alongside 
methodological and procedural uncertainties associated with research-related 
procedures. As determined by pre-specified progression criteria, if research 
procedures and the new intervention demonstrate feasibility and acceptability, 
results will then be used to inform the design of a pilot randomised controlled 
trial (RCT) to specifically examine remaining methodological uncertainties 
associated with recruitment into a randomised controlled design.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN42017211.

DOI: 10.1186/s40814-016-0083-x
PMCID: PMC5153814
PMID: 27965860


384. J Obes. 2016;2016:1871594. doi: 10.1155/2016/1871594. Epub 2016 Nov 14.

Bariatric Surgery, Polycystic Ovary Syndrome, and Infertility.

Butterworth J(1), Deguara J(2), Borg CM(1).

Author information:
(1)University Hospital Lewisham, Lewisham and Greenwich NHS Trust, London, UK.
(2)Kingston Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, Kingston upon Thames, UK.

Background. Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is the commonest cause of female 
infertility. Visceral obesity and insulin resistance are key pathophysiological 
mechanisms behind PCOS. Women suffering from this syndrome and infertility often 
seek bariatric surgery hoping that they would be able to conceive 
postoperatively. Objective. At present, there is no consensus on the role of 
bariatric surgery in the management of PCOS-associated infertility within the 
medical community, making it difficult to give specific advice to these women, 
so a review of the literature was necessary. Results. A detailed review of the 
literature was performed. Only 6 manuscripts were relevant and contained 
quantitative data. They demonstrated that bariatric surgery results in 
postoperative conception rates varying from 33% to 100%. Surgery is also 
associated with amelioration of menstrual irregularities, hormonal 
abnormalities, and hirsutism that are associated with PCOS. These studies were 
retrospective and only had a small number of participants with infertility. 
Conclusions. Bariatric surgery has been shown to conclusively improve life 
expectancy, quality of life, and comorbidities like type 2 diabetes and 
obstructive sleep apnea. However, further research is required to identify 
whether weight loss surgery results in significant improvement in fertility of 
women with PCOS and to investigate which operation has the best results.

DOI: 10.1155/2016/1871594
PMCID: PMC5124647
PMID: 27965894 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no commercial associations that 
might be a conflict of interests in relation to this article.


385. Clin Otolaryngol. 2017 Apr;42(2):404-415. doi: 10.1111/coa.12807. Epub 2017
Jan  31.

Transoral laser microsurgery versus radiation therapy in the management of T1 
and T2 laryngeal glottic carcinoma: which modality is cost-effective within the 
UK?

Prettyjohns M(1), Winter S(2), Kerawala C(3), Paleri V(4); the NICE cancer of 
the upper aerodigestive tract guideline committee.

Collaborators: Robinson M, Bhide S, Capel M, Cox L, Fenlon M, Newman L, Orr S, 
Roques T, Smith A, Spraggett S, Talwar B, Thavaraj S, Thornton J, Wong WL.

Author information:
(1)National Collaborating Centre for Cancer, Cardiff, UK.
(2)Oxford University Hospitals, Oxford, UK.
(3)Royal Marsden Hospitals, London, UK.
(4)Newcastle upon Tyne Hospitals, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To identify the most cost-effective treatment strategy in patients 
with early stage (T1 and T2) cancers of the laryngeal glottis.
DESIGN: A Markov decision model populated using data from updated systematic 
reviews and meta-analyses, with attributable costs from NHS sources. Data on 
local control and mortality were obtained from updates of existing systematic 
reviews conducted for the NICE guideline on cancer of the upper aerodigestive 
tract. Procedure costs were sourced from NHS reference costs 2013/14 by applying 
tariffs associated with the appropriate health resource group code SETTING: The 
UK National Health Service.
POPULATION: Patients with early stage (T1 and T2) cancers of the laryngeal 
glottis.
INTERVENTIONS: Transoral laser microsurgery (TLM) and radiation therapy (RT).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Total costs, incremental costs and quality adjusted life 
years (QALYs) over a 10-year time horizon.
RESULTS: Radiation therapy as the initial treatment strategy was found to be 
more expensive (£2654 versus £623) and less effective (QALY reduction of 0.141 
and 0.04 in T1a and T1b-T2 laryngeal cancers, respectively) than TLM. The 
dominance of TLM for T1a cancers was unchanged in most scenarios modelled in 
sensitivity analysis. For T1b-T2 laryngeal cancers, the result changed in 
numerous scenarios. In probabilistic sensitivity analysis, TLM was found to have 
a 71% and 58% probability of being cost-effective in T1a and T1b-T2 laryngeal 
cancers, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Transoral laser microsurgery is a cost-effective strategy to adopt 
in the management of T1a laryngeal cancers. Uncertainty remains over the optimal 
strategy to adopt in T1b-T2 laryngeal cancers.

© 2017 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/coa.12807
PMID: 27966287 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


386. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2016;160:D859.

[Overweight, obesity and life expectancy: do people with a high BMI live 
longer?].

[Article in Dutch]

Seidell JC(1), Halberstadt J.

Author information:
(1)Vrije Universiteit, afd. Gezondheidswetenschappen, Amsterdam.

- The relationship between BMI and relative mortality risk is J- or U-shaped; 
both a low and a high BMI are related to increased risk of mortality.- When 
analyses are restricted to healthy individuals who are non-smokers and are 
followed up for a long time, the relative mortality risk is already increased at 
a BMI of 25 kg/m² and increases further with increasing BMI.- There are people 
with obesity who do not have significant cardiovascular risk factors, but even 
so they are at increased risk of cardiovascular disease compared to people who 
are not overweight and lack risk factors.- People with severe illnesses often 
experience weight loss and - at the same time - are at increased risk of 
premature death, and therefore it appears that overweightness is associated with 
a favourable prognosis.- The observation that overweight and obese people are 
not linked to increased mortality can largely be explained by methodological 
sources of bias.

PMID: 27966405 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


387. Health Technol Assess. 2016 Dec;20(91):1-124. doi: 10.3310/hta20910.

The Men's Safer Sex project: intervention development and feasibility randomised 
controlled trial of an interactive digital intervention to increase condom use 
in men.

Bailey JV(1), Webster R(1), Hunter R(2), Griffin M(2), Freemantle N(2), Rait 
G(2), Estcourt C(3), Michie S(4), Anderson J(5), Stephenson J(6), Gerressu M(7), 
Ang CS(8), Murray E(1).

Author information:
(1)E-Health unit, Research Department of Primary Care and Population Health, 
University College London, London, UK.
(2)PRIMENT Clinical Trials Unit, Research Department of Primary Care and 
Population Health, University College London, London, UK.
(3)Barts and The London School of Medicine and Dentistry, Barts Sexual Health 
Centre, Queen Mary University of London, St Bartholomew's Hospital, London, UK.
(4)Research Department of Clinical, Educational and Health Psychology, 
University College London, London, UK.
(5)Homerton Sexual Health Services, Homerton Teaching Hospitals, London, UK.
(6)Department of Reproductive Health, Institute for Women's Health, University 
College London, London, UK.
(7)Department of Infection and Population Health, University College London, 
London, UK.
(8)Engineering and Digital Arts, University of Kent, Kent, UK.

BACKGROUND: This report details the development of the Men's Safer Sex website 
and the results of a feasibility randomised controlled trial (RCT), health 
economic assessment and qualitative evaluation.
OBJECTIVES: (1) Develop the Men's Safer Sex website to address barriers to 
condom use; (2) determine the best design for an online RCT; (3) inform the 
methods for collecting and analysing health economic data; (4) assess the Sexual 
Quality of Life (SQoL) questionnaire and European Quality of Life-5 Dimensions, 
three-level version (EQ-5D-3L) to calculate quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs); 
and (5) explore clinic staff and men's views of online research methodology.
METHODS: (1) Website development: we combined evidence from research literature 
and the views of experts (n = 18) and male clinic users (n = 43); (2) 
feasibility RCT: 159 heterosexually active men were recruited from three sexual 
health clinics and were randomised by computer to the Men's Safer Sex website 
plus usual care (n = 84) or usual clinic care only (n = 75). Men were invited to 
complete online questionnaires at 3, 6, 9 and 12 months, and sexually 
transmitted infection (STI) diagnoses were recorded from clinic notes at 12 
months; (3) health economic evaluation: we investigated the impact of using 
different questionnaires to calculate utilities and QALYs (the EQ-5D-3L and SQoL 
questionnaire), and compared different methods to collect resource use; and (4) 
qualitative evaluation: thematic analysis of interviews with 11 male trial 
participants and nine clinic staff, as well as free-text comments from online 
outcome questionnaires.
RESULTS: (1) Software errors and clinic Wi-Fi access presented significant 
challenges. Response rates for online questionnaires were poor but improved with 
larger vouchers (from 36% with £10 to 50% with £30). Clinical records were 
located for 94% of participants for STI diagnoses. There were no group 
differences in condomless sex with female partners [incidence rate ratio (IRR) 
1.01, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.52 to 1.96]. New STI diagnoses were 
recorded for 8.8% (7/80) of the intervention group and 13.0% (9/69) of the 
control group (IRR 0.75, 95% CI 0.29 to 1.89). (2) Health-care resource data 
were more complete using patient files than questionnaires. The probability that 
the intervention is cost-effective is sensitive to the source of data used and 
whether or not data on intended pregnancies are included. (3) The pilot RCT 
fitted well around clinical activities but 37% of the intervention group did not 
see the Men's Safer Sex website and technical problems were frustrating. Men's 
views of the Men's Safer Sex website and research procedures were largely 
positive.
CONCLUSIONS: It would be feasible to conduct a large-scale RCT using clinic STI 
diagnoses as a primary outcome; however, technical errors and a poor response 
rate limited the collection of online self-reported outcomes. The next steps are 
(1) to optimise software for online trials, (2) to find the best ways to 
integrate digital health promotion with clinical services, (3) to develop more 
precise methods for collecting resource use data and (4) to work out how to 
overcome barriers to digital intervention testing and implementation in the NHS.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN18649610.
FUNDING: This project was funded by the NIHR Health Technology Assessment 
programme and will be published in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol. 
20, No. 91. See the NIHR Journals Library website for further project 
information.

DOI: 10.3310/hta20910
PMCID: PMC5204131
PMID: 27966409 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


388. Clin Exp Rheumatol. 2017 May-Jun;35(3):384-389. Epub 2016 Dec 13.

Response to methotrexate predicts long-term mortality of patients with 
rheumatoid arthritis independent of the degree of response: results of a 
re-evaluation 30 years after baseline.

Krause C(1), Herborn G(2), Braun J(3), Rudolf H(4), Wassenberg S(2), Rau R(2), 
Krause D(5).

Author information:
(1)University of Münster, Germany.
(2)Department of Rheumatology, Evangelisches Fachkrankenhaus, Ratingen, Germany.
(3)Rheumazentrum Ruhrgebiet, Herne, Germany.
(4)Department of Medical Informatics, Biometry and Epidemiology, 
Ruhr-University, Bochum, Germany.
(5)Department of Medical Informatics, Biometry and Epidemiology, 
Ruhr-University, Bochum, Germany. gundi.krause@t-online.de.

OBJECTIVES: To assess if there is a correlation between the degree of response 
to treatment with methotrexate (MTX) and long-term mortality in a cohort of 
patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) established in Germany in the early 
eighties.
METHODS: RA patients who had started MTX treatment between 1980 and 1987 were 
included. One year after baseline, the treatment response was evaluated. 
Responders were defined as patients with at least 20% decline in the swollen 
joint count (out of 32 joints) and the ESR with a prednisone dosage <5 mg/day. 
Thereafter, assessments were performed at 10, 18, and 30 years after baseline. 
Standardised mortality ratios (SMR) were calculated, Cox regression and logistic 
regression were performed.
RESULTS: The cohort comprised 271 patients. In 2015, about 30 years after the 
initiation of MTX therapy, 185 patients (68%) were deceased, 52 (19%) lost to 
follow-up and 34 alive. The response after the first year of MTX treatment was 
the strongest predictor of survival with a hazard ratio of 0.44 (95% confidence 
interval [CI]: 0.30-0.65). However, even responders still had an SMR of 1.37 
(95% CI 1.31-1.65), but this was much worse for non-responders who had an SMR of 
4.22 (95% CI 3.13-5.56). Using Cox regression analysis no difference was 
detected between responders with more than 50% improvement (38% of all patients) 
and those with 20-50% improvement (28%).
CONCLUSIONS: The predictive value of a response to one year of MTX therapy for 
long-term mortality of RA patients is independent of the degree of response.

PMID: 27974101 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


389. BMJ Open. 2016 Dec 13;6(12):e013742. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2016-013742.

Should all anticoagulated patients with head injury receive a CT scan? 
Decision-analysis modelling of an observational cohort.

Kuczawski M(1), Stevenson M(1), Goodacre S(1), Teare MD(1), Ramlakhan S(2), 
Morris F(2), Mason S(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Related Research, University of Sheffield, Sheffield UK.
(2)Emergency Department, Northern General Hospital, Sheffield UK.

OBJECTIVES: It is not currently clear whether all anticoagulated patients with a 
head injury should receive CT scanning or only those with evidence of traumatic 
brain injury (eg, loss of consciousness or amnesia). We aimed to determine the 
cost-effectiveness of CT for all compared with selective CT use for 
anticoagulated patients with a head injury.
DESIGN: Decision-analysis modelling of data from a multicentre observational 
study.
SETTING: 33 emergency departments in England and Scotland.
PARTICIPANTS: 3566 adults (aged ≥16 years) who had suffered blunt head injury, 
were taking warfarin and underwent selective CT scanning.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Estimated expected benefits in terms of quality-adjusted 
life years (QALYs) were the entire cohort to receive a CT scan; estimated 
increased costs of CT and also the potential cost implications associated with 
patient survival and improved health. These values were used to estimate the 
cost per QALY of implementing a strategy of CT for all patients compared with 
observed practice based on guidelines recommending selective CT use.
RESULTS: Of the 1420 of 3534 patients (40%) who did not receive a CT scan, 7 
(0.5%) suffered a potentially avoidable head injury-related adverse outcome. If 
CT scanning had been performed in all patients, appropriate treatment could have 
gained 3.41 additional QALYs but would have incurred £193 149 additional 
treatment costs and £130 683 additional CT costs. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio of £94 895/QALY gained for unselective compared with 
selective CT use is markedly above the threshold of £20-30 000/QALY used by the 
UK National Institute for Care Excellence to determine cost-effectiveness.
CONCLUSIONS: CT scanning for all anticoagulated patients with head injury is not 
cost-effective compared with selective use of CT scanning based on guidelines 
recommending scanning only for those with evidence of traumatic brain injury.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NCT 02461498.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not 
already granted under a licence) please go to 
http://www.bmj.com/company/products-services/rights-and-licensing/.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2016-013742
PMCID: PMC5168615
PMID: 27974370 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: None declared.


390. PLoS One. 2016 Dec 14;11(12):e0167533. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0167533. 
eCollection 2016.

Functional Morphology of the Arm Spine Joint and Adjacent Structures of the 
Brittlestar Ophiocomina nigra (Echinodermata: Ophiuroidea).

Wilkie IC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, Glasgow Caledonian University, Glasgow G4 0BA, 
Scotland, United Kingdom.

The skeletal morphology of the arm spine joint of the brittlestar Ophiocomina 
nigra was examined by scanning electron microscopy and the associated epidermis, 
connective tissue structures, juxtaligamental system and muscle by optical and 
transmission electron microscopy. The behaviour of spines in living animals was 
observed and two experiments were conducted to establish if the spine ligament 
is mutable collagenous tissue: these determined (1) if animals could detach 
spines to which plastic tags had been attached and (2) if the extension under 
constant load of isolated joint preparations was affected by high potassium 
stimulation. The articulation normally operates as a flexible joint in which the 
articular surfaces are separated by compliant connective tissue. The articular 
surfaces comprise a reniform apposition and peg-in-socket mechanical stop, and 
function primarily to stabilise spines in the erect position. Erect spines can 
be completely immobilised, which depends on the ligament having mutable tensile 
properties, as was inferred from the ability of animals to detach tagged spines 
and the responsiveness of isolated joint preparations to high potassium. The 
epidermis surrounding the joint has circumferential constrictions that 
facilitate compression folding and unfolding when the spine is inclined. The 
interarticular connective tissue is an acellular meshwork of collagen fibril 
bundles and may serve to reduce frictional forces between the articular 
surfaces. The ligament consists of parallel bundles of collagen fibrils and 7-14 
nm microfibrils. Its passive elastic recoil contributes to the re-erection of 
inclined spines. The ligament is permeated by cell processes containing large 
dense-core vesicles, which belong to two types of juxtaligamental cells, one of 
which is probably peptidergic. The spine muscle consists of obliquely striated 
myocytes that are linked to the skeleton by extensions of their basement 
membranes. Muscle contraction may serve mainly to complete the process of spine 
erection by ensuring close contact between the articular surfaces.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0167533
PMCID: PMC5156572
PMID: 27974856 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The author has declared that no competing 
interests exist.


391. J Med Life. 2016 Jan-Mar;9(1):52-55.

Modulating the extension of axillary lymphadenectomy for early stage breast 
cancer.

Plesca M(1), Bordea C(1), El Houcheimi B(1), Ichim E(1), Blidaru A(1).

Author information:
(1)2nd Department Surgical Oncology, "Prof. Dr. Alexandru Trestioreanu" Oncology 
Institute, Bucharest, Romania.

Axillary lymph node evaluation remains essential in breast cancer surgery, first 
as a prognostic factor, because it indicates the degree of dissemination of the 
disease to the main lymphatic drainage basin of the breast, and, on the other 
hand, as an element of preventing the local relapse. In the era of the sentinel 
lymph node, complete axillary lymphadenectomy, considered valuable until 
recently, but as therapeutic and diagnostic, has become an intervention 
performed increasingly rare in selected cases. Axillary lymphatic tissue 
resections are accompanied by morbidity (lymphedema, paresthesia, limitations of 
arm movement) and symptom magnitude is proportional to the extension of the 
intervention. For this reason, a solution to avoid these kinds of complications 
was looked for. Since Gould, in 1960, who mentioned cancer parotid and 
continuing with Cabanas, Morton, or Veronesi, many surgeons have contributed to 
the development of safe techniques with which the multidisciplinary team 
involved in the surgical treatment for breast cancer could perform a safe 
oncological intervention and at the same time could conserve the healthy tissue, 
thus limiting morbidity. To achieve this standard, axillary lymphadenectomy has 
passed through several stages, from over radical interventions that followed the 
Halsted era, in which, besides axillary lymph nodes, the internal mammary and 
jugulo-carotidian lymph nodes were excised, to the absence of axillary surgery 
and replacing it with radiation therapy.

PMCID: PMC5152599
PMID: 27974914 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


392. J Med Life. 2016 Jan-Mar;9(1):84-87.

Post-treatment periapical periodontitis X-ray versus CBCT - a case report.

Perlea P(1), Nistor C(1), Suciu I(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endodontology, "Carol Davila" University of Medicine and 
Pharmacy, Bucharest, Romania.

Post treatment periapical periodontitis is usually caused by residual microbes, 
due to poorly treated root canals and microleakage. Our clinical case proved 
that orthograde, single-visit endodontic re-treatment is the first choice for 
the clinician. Cone Beam Computed Tomography (CBCT) images detect the presence 
and the real extension of the periapical periodontitis and the outcome of the 
endodontic treatment, in terms of healing the bone defect. Compared with the 
limited 2-D data obtained by using the radiograph, the CBCT shows a 3-D image of 
the tooth, the root canal, and the surrounding tissue.

PMCID: PMC5152605
PMID: 27974921 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


393. J Med Life. 2016 Jul-Sep;9(3):297-301.

Prenatal ultrasound diagnosis and pregnancy outcome of umbilical cord knot - 
debate regarding ethical aspects of a series of cases.

Bohîlțea RE(1), Turcan N(2), Cîrstoiu M(1).

Author information:
(1)"Carol Davila" University of Medicine and Pharmacy, Bucharest, Romania ; 
University Emergency Hospital Bucharest, Romania.
(2)University Emergency Hospital Bucharest, Romania.

True umbilical cord knot appears to be a relatively common complication that 
occurs in 0.3%-1.3% of all pregnancies and it is correlated with an increased 
incidence of SGA infants, premature birth, need for neonatal intensive care and 
fetal death. The aim of the article was to evaluate the incidence of the true 
umbilical cord knot in the University Emergency Hospital, Bucharest, for a 
period of 5 years and its association with premature birth, low birth weight, 
low Apgar score at 1 minute and the need for neonatal intensive care. By 
reviewing the total number of women who delivered in this unit between January 
1st 2011 and December 31st 2015, the percentage of the diagnosis antepartum and 
intrapartum, the outcome of these pregnancies, and the reflection of this 
condition on the fetal status, were evaluated. During 5 years, 133 (0.71%) of 
18.500 deliveries were diagnosed with true umbilical cord knot, only 16 (0.08%) 
cases were diagnosed by ultrasound antepartum. The mean maternal age was 34.3 
years. About 30% of the studied cases (39) presented this condition at the third 
delivery or more. A personal history for diabetes corresponded to 27 cases 
(20.3%). From our database, it resulted that only 12 fetuses (10.5%) required 
neonatal intensive care and presented an Apgar score lower than 7 at 1 minute. 
Prenatal diagnosis of a true umbilical cord knot is rarely encountered and 
sonography skills are needed. Complementary methods such as color Doppler and 3D 
HD Flow are reliable for the diagnostic when true umbilical cord knots are 
suspected after a 2D scan. Several risk factors can guide the expectancy, such 
as advanced maternal age, polyhydramnios, multiparty or diabetes.

PMCID: PMC5154319
PMID: 27974939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


394. GMS Interdiscip Plast Reconstr Surg DGPW. 2016 Dec 6;5:Doc23. doi: 
10.3205/iprs000102. eCollection 2016.

Predictive values derived from lower wisdom teeth developmental stages on 
orthopantomograms to calculate the chronological age in adolescence and young 
adults as a prerequisite to obtain age-adjusted informed patient consent prior 
to elective surgical procedures in young patients with incomplete or mismatched 
personal data.

Friedrich RE(1), Schmidt K(1), Treszl A(2), Kersten JF(3).

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Mund-, Kiefer- und Gesichtschirurgie, Kopf- und Neuro-Zentrum, 
Universitätsklinikum Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg, Deutschland.
(2)Institut für Medizinische Biometrie und Epidemiologie, Zentrum für 
Experimentelle Medizin, Universitätsklinikum Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg, 
Deutschland.
(3)Institut für Medizinische Biometrie und Epidemiologie, Zentrum für 
Experimentelle Medizin, Universitätsklinikum Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg, 
Deutschland; Competenzzentrum Epidemiologie und Versorgungsforschung bei 
Pflegeberufen (CVcare), Institut für Versorgungsforschung in der Dermatologie 
und bei Pflegeberufen (IVDP), Universitätsklinikum Hamburg-Eppendorf (UKE), 
Hamburg, Deutschland.

Introduction: Surgical procedures require informed patient consent, which is 
mandatory prior to any procedure. These requirements apply in particular to 
elective surgical procedures. The communication with the patient about the 
procedure has to be comprehensive and based on mutual understanding. 
Furthermore, the informed consent has to take into account whether a patient is 
of legal age. As a result of large-scale migration, there are eventually 
patients planned for medical procedures, whose chronological age can't be 
assessed reliably by physical inspection alone. Age determination based on 
assessing wisdom tooth development stages can be used to help determining 
whether individuals involved in medical procedures are of legal age, i.e., 
responsible and accountable. At present, the assessment of wisdom tooth 
developmental stages barely allows a crude estimate of an individual's age. This 
study explores possibilities for more precise predictions of the age of 
individuals with emphasis on the legal age threshold of 18 years. Material and 
Methods: 1,900 dental orthopantomograms (female 938, male 962, age: 15-24 
years), taken between the years 2000 and 2013 for diagnosis and treatment of 
diseases of the jaws, were evaluated. 1,895 orthopantomograms (female 935, male 
960) of 1,804 patients (female 872, male 932) met the inclusion criteria. The 
archives of the Department of Diagnostic Radiology in Dentistry, University 
Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf, and of an oral and maxillofacial office in 
Rostock, Germany, were used to collect a sufficient number of radiographs. An 
effort was made to achieve almost equal distribution of age categories in this 
study group; 'age' was given on a particular day. The radiological criteria of 
lower third molar investigation were: presence and extension of periodontal 
space, alveolar bone loss, emergence of tooth, and stage of tooth mineralization 
(according to Demirjian). Univariate and multivariate general linear models were 
calculated. Using hierarchical multivariate analyses a formula was derived 
quantifying the development of the four parameters of wisdom tooth over time. 
This model took repeated measurements of the same persons into account and is 
only applicable when a person is assessed a second time. The second approach 
investigates a linear regression model in order to predict the age. In a third 
approach, a classification and regression tree (CART) was developed to derive 
cut-off values for the four parameters, resulting in a classification with 
estimates for sensitivity and specificity. Results: No statistically significant 
differences were found between parameters related to wisdom tooth localization 
(right or left side). In univariate analyses being of legal age was associated 
with consecutive stages of wisdom tooth development, the obliteration of the 
periodontal space, and tooth emergence, as well with alveolar bone loss; no 
association was found with tooth mineralization. Multivariate models without 
repeated measurements revealed imprecise estimates because of the unknown 
individual-related variability. The precision of these models is thus not very 
good, although it improves with advancing age. When calculating a CART-analysis 
and a receiver operating characteristics - area under the curve of 78% was 
achieved; when maximizing both specificity and sensitivity, a Youden's index of 
47% was achieved (with 73% specificity and 74% sensitivity). Discussion: This 
study provides a basis to help determine whether a person is 18 years or older 
in individuals who are assumed to be between 15 and 24 years old. From repeated 
measurements, we found a linear effect of age on the four parameters in the 
individuals. However, this information can't be used for prognosis, because of 
the large intra-individual variability. Thus, although the development of the 
four parameters can be estimated over time, a direct conclusion with regard to 
age can't be drawn from the parameters without previous biographic information 
about a person. While a single parameter is of limited value for calculating the 
target age of 18 years, combining several findings, that can be determined on a 
standard radiography, may potentially be a more reliable diagnostic tool for 
estimating the target age in both sexes. However, a high degree of precision 
can't be achieved. The reason for persistent uncertainty lies in the wide 
chronological range of wisdom tooth development, which stretches from well below 
to above the 18th life year. The regression approach thus seems not optimal. 
Although sensitivity and specificity of the CART-model are moderately high, this 
model is still not reliable as a diagnostic tool. Our findings could have 
impact, e.g. on elective surgeries for young individuals with unknown biography. 
However, these results cannot replace social engagement, in particular thorough 
physical examination of patients and careful registration of their histories. 
Further studies on the use of this calculation method in different ethnic groups 
would be desirable.

Publisher: Einleitung: Die Durchführung operativer Eingriffe bedarf der 
rechtsgültigen Aufklärung. Diese hat insbesondere bei geplanten elektiven 
Eingriffen umfassend und verständlich zu erfolgen. Darüber hinaus hat sich die 
ärztliche Aufklärung hinsichtlich der Einwilligungserklärung an der juristisch 
definierten Volljährigkeit zu orientieren. Infolge der großen transnationalen 
Migrationen gibt es einen Anteil an Patienten, deren Lebensalter unbekannt ist 
und deren ärztliche Alterseinschätzung das Erreichen des 18. Lebensjahres 
ausschließlich anhand des äußeren Erscheinungsbildes nur unsicher vermuten 
lässt. In dieser Situation kann die aus der forensischen Odontostomatologie 
bekannte Altersschätzung nach den radiologisch bestimmten Entwicklungsphasen der 
Weisheitszahnentwicklung die juristisch relevante Entscheidung unterstützen, ob 
die ärztliche Aufklärung einem Heranwachsenden oder Erwachsenen gilt. Da die 
Beurteilung der Zahnwurzelentwicklungsstadien der Weisheitszähne lediglich einen 
Zeitkorridor des wahrscheinlichen Lebensalters vorgibt, war es das Anliegen 
dieser Untersuchung, mit zusätzlichen Parametern der Radiomorphologie des 
unteren Weisheitszahns die Altersschätzung für das Erreichen des 18. 
Lebensjahres zu präzisieren.Material und Methoden: Es wurden 1.900 
Orthopantomogramme der Kiefer von Patienten mit bekanntem Geburtsdatum 
untersucht, 5 Orthopantomogramme entsprachen nicht den Einschlusskriterien. Das 
Lebensalter lag zwischen 15 und 24 Jahren. Es wurde eine Gleichverteilung der 
Untersuchungsgruppe nach Alter (je Lebensjahr) und Geschlecht bei der Auswahl 
der Röntgenbilder angestrebt und hinreichend eingehalten. Die Röntgenaufnahmen 
wurden in den Jahren 2000 bis 2013 in der Abteilung Zahnärztliche Radiologie des 
Universitätsklinikums Hamburg-Eppendorf oder in einer 
mund-kiefer-gesichtschirurgischen Praxis in Rostock angefertigt. Eine mehrfache 
Untersuchung von Patienten (n=1.804, mit 1.895 auswertbaren Orthopantomogrammen) 
war nicht ausgeschlossen und wurde ggf. bei den Analysen berücksichtigt. An den 
unteren Weisheitszähnen wurden vier Parameter bestimmt: Nachweis und Ausdehnung 
des Parodontalspaltes bzw. der periradikulären Sklerose, vertikaler 
Knochenverlust des Alveolarfortsatzes im Bereich des Zahnes, Durchbruchsstadium 
des Zahnes in die Mundhöhle und das Wurzelentwicklungsstadium (nach Demirjian). 
Nach einer Überprüfung, ob bereits die Erhebung eines Parameters ausreicht und 
hinreichend gute Erkenntnisse über die Volljährigkeit des Untersuchten liefert, 
wurden die erhobenen Parameter in drei Ansätzen kombiniert; hier wurde das 
Augenmerk auf unterschiedliche Aspekte, Anwendungen und Aussagen gerichtet. Die 
erste Analyse betrachtet die Entwicklung der vier Parameter im jeweiligen 
Patienten über die Zeit. Der zweite Ansatz untersucht die Vorhersage des 
Lebensalters basierend auf allen vier erhobenen Parametern unter 
Berücksichtigung der Messwiederholungen mittels eines gemischten linearen 
Modells, und schließlich wurden ein Gesamtmodell und geschlechtsspezifische 
Entscheidungsbäume erstellt, mit deren Hilfe bei Vorliegen der vier erhobenen 
Parameter eine Abschätzung der Wahrscheinlichkeit für das Erreichen bzw. 
Nicht-Erreichen der Volljährigkeit abgeleitet werden kann.Ergebnisse: Es ließen 
sich keine signifikanten Unterschiede hinsichtlich der Lokalisation der 
Weisheitszähne (rechts/links) nachweisen. In den univariaten ROC-AUC-Analysen 
zeigten die Parameter Zahndurchbruchsstadium, Parodontalspalt und der 
Knochenschwund des den Weisheitszahn umgebenden Alveolarfortsatzes einen klaren 
signifikanten prognostischen Wert hinsichtlich der Volljährigkeit in der 
Untersuchungsgruppe. Das Mineralisationsstadium zeigte sich nicht als geeigneter 
Parameter zur direkten Bestimmung der Volljährigkeit. Für die Prognose scheinen 
drei der vier Parameter somit geeignet. Betrachtet man die Entwicklung der Zähne 
in Individuen anhand der vier Parameter mit wachsendem Lebensalter, konnte eine 
Veränderung der vier Zahnparameter nachgewiesen werden. Eine Umkehr der 
Kausalität und die Vorhersage des Lebensalters durch die vier Zahnparameter 
erscheint jedoch problematisch. Eine erhebliche individuelle Komponente ist bei 
den untersuchten Personen zu beobachten. Dies liegt u.a. daran, dass eine 
Entwicklung der Weisheitszähne durchaus vor und nach dem Erreichen des 18. 
Lebensjahres stattfinden kann. In multivariaten Analysen konnte gezeigt werden, 
dass durch die Kombination der Parameter mit wesentlich größerer 
Wahrscheinlichkeit ein Lebensalter von 18 Jahren und höher korrekt vorausgesagt 
werden kann und somit eine Formel die Kalkulation des Alters ermöglicht. Eine 
Trennung zwischen Heranwachsenden und Volljährigen ist mit einer Formel jedoch 
bei weitem nicht so perfekt, wie man es sich eigentlich wünschen würde. Ein 
Entscheidungsbaum, der nach geeigneten, aufeinander abgestimmten Cut-off-Werten 
sucht, verspricht eine leicht handhabbare Lösung zu liefern. Der 
Gesamtentscheidungsbaum hatte eine Fläche unter der Kurve (AUC) von 78%. Die 
Wahl der Entscheidungsregel setzt jedoch eine Abwägung der Priorisierung von 
Sensitivität oder Spezifität voraus. Ausgehend von der Annahme, dass beide 
Kriterien gleichwertig sind, lässt sich eine angestrebte Maximierung der Summe 
der beiden Maßzahlen anstreben. Die Ableitung eines Entscheidungsbaumes führte 
bei geeigneter Wahl der Knoten zu einer Sensitivität von 74% und einer 
Spezifität von 73% (hieraus folgt ein Youden-Index von 47%). Eine vollständig 
sichere Unterscheidung forensisch relevanter Lebensalter ist mit den 
vorgestellten Methoden somit nicht zu treffen.Diskussion: In der ärztlichen 
Aufklärung ist besondere Sorgfalt auf die alters- und entwicklungsangepasste 
Kommunikation mit dem Patienten zu achten. Ein wesentlicher Pfeiler der 
juristischen Personeneinschätzung ist das Erreichen der Volljährigkeit, die in 
Deutschland im Grundsatz mit dem 18. Lebensjahr erreicht ist. Für Personen mit 
unbekanntem Geburtsdatum können gelegentlich Schwierigkeiten entstehen, auf 
