eradication as soon as possible-was most likely to be cost-effective above a 
willingness to pay threshold of US$71.5/DALY averted. Intensified MDA scale-up 
was also associated with lower ICERs. Furthermore, this could result in health 
systems savings up to US$483 million. Extending coverage to all endemic areas 
could generate additional economic benefits through gains in worker productivity 
between US$3.4 and US$14.4 billion.
CONCLUSIONS: In addition to ethical and political motivations for scaling-up MDA 
rapidly, this analysis provides economic support for increasing the intensity of 
MDA programmes.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjgh-2015-000021
PMCID: PMC5321305
PMID: 28588916

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: MT serves as board member 
for DNDi, and serves on the scientific advisory board of the Novartis Institute 
for Tropical Diseases.


131. Pediatr Nephrol. 2018 Jul;33(7):1105-1111. doi: 10.1007/s00467-017-3706-4.
Epub  2017 Jun 6.

Bioengineering in renal transplantation: technological advances and novel 
options.

Yeo WS(1), Zhang YC(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Pediatric Nephrology, Dialysis and Renal Transplantation, 
Shaw-National Kidney Foundation, National University Hospital Children's Kidney 
Centre, Khoo Teck Puat-National University, Children's Medical Institute, 
National University Health System, NUHS Tower Block, 1E Kent Ridge Road, 
Singapore, 119228, Singapore. paeyws@nus.edu.sg.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, National 
University of Singapore, Singapore, Singapore.

End-stage kidney disease (ESKD) is one of the most prevalent diseases in the 
world with significant morbidity and mortality. Current modes of renal 
replacement therapy include dialysis and renal transplantation. Although 
dialysis is an acceptable mode of renal replacement therapy, it does have its 
shortcomings, which include poorer life expectancy compared with renal 
transplantation, risk of infections and vascular thrombosis, lack of vascular 
access and absence of biosynthetic functions of the kidney. Renal 
transplantation, in contrast, is the preferred option of renal replacement 
therapy, with improved morbidity and mortality rates and quality of life, 
compared with dialysis. Renal transplantation, however, may not be available to 
all patients with ESKD. Some of the key factors limiting the availability and 
efficiency of renal transplantation include shortage of donor organs and the 
constant risk of rejection with complications associated with 
over-immunosuppression respectively. This review focuses chiefly on the 
potential roles of bioengineering in overcoming limitations in renal 
transplantation via the development of cell-based bioartificial dialysis devices 
as bridging options before renal transplantation, and the development of new 
sources of organs utilizing cell and organ engineering.

DOI: 10.1007/s00467-017-3706-4
PMID: 28589209 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


132. Environ Sci Pollut Res Int. 2018 Nov;25(33):32913-32925. doi: 
10.1007/s11356-017-9343-4. Epub 2017 Jun 6.

Hydrologic monitoring tools for freshwater municipal planning in the Arctic: the 
case of Iqaluit, Nunavut, Canada.

Bakaic M(1), Medeiros AS(2), Peters JF(3), Wolfe BB(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental Studies, York University, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(2)Robarts Centre for Canadian Studies, York University, Toronto, ON, Canada. 
fraggle@yorku.ca.
(3)Department of Geography and Environmental Studies, Wilfrid Laurier 
University, Waterloo, ON, Canada.

Freshwater and the services it provides are vital to both natural ecosystems and 
human needs; however, extreme climates and their influence on freshwater 
availability can be challenging for municipal planners and engineers to manage 
these resources effectively. In Arctic Canada, financial and human capital 
limitations have left a legacy of freshwater systems that underserve current 
communities and may be inadequate in the near future under a warming climate, 
growing population, and increasing demand. We address this challenge to 
community water resource planning by applying several novel water supply 
forecasting methods to evaluate the Apex River as an alternative freshwater 
source for Iqaluit, Nunavut (Canada). Surveys of water isotope composition of 
the Apex River and tributaries indicated that rainfall is the main source of 
water replenishment. This information was utilized to calibrate a water resource 
assessment that considered climate forecasting scenarios and their influence on 
supply, and alternative scenarios for freshwater management to better adapt to a 
changing climate. We found that under current climate and demand conditions, the 
freshwater supply of Iqaluit would be in a perpetual state of drawdown by 2024. 
Analysis of current infrastructure proposals revealed significant deficiencies 
in the supply extensions proposed whereby the Apex replenishment pipeline would 
only provide a 2-year extension to current municipal supply. Our heuristic 
supply forecast methods allowed for several alternative supply strategies to be 
rapidly evaluated, which will aid the community planning process by specifically 
quantifying the service life of the city's current and future primary water 
supply.

DOI: 10.1007/s11356-017-9343-4
PMID: 28589278 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


133. Epilepsia. 2017 Aug;58(8):1398-1408. doi: 10.1111/epi.13806. Epub 2017 Jun
7.

An economic evaluation of a multicomponent self-management intervention for 
adults with epilepsy (ZMILE study).

Wijnen BFM(1)(2)(3), Leenen LAM(1)(2)(3), de Kinderen RJA(1)(2)(3), van Heugten 
CM(4)(5), Majoie MHJM(3)(4)(6)(7), Evers SMAA(1)(2)(8).

Author information:
(1)CAPHRI School for Public Health and Primary Care, Maastricht University, 
Maastricht, The Netherlands.
(2)Department of Health Services Research, Maastricht University, Maastricht, 
The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Research & Development, Epilepsy Center Kempenhaeghe, Heeze, 
The Netherlands.
(4)Department of Psychiatry and Neuropsychology, MHENS, School for Mental Health 
and Neuroscience, Maastricht University Medical Center, Maastricht, The 
Netherlands.
(5)Department of Neuropsychology and Psychopharmacology, Maastricht University, 
Maastricht, The Netherlands.
(6)Department of Neurology, Academic Center for Epileptology, Epilepsy Center 
Kempenhaeghe and Maastricht University Medical Center, Maastricht, The 
Netherlands.
(7)Faculty of Health, Medicine and Life Sciences, School of Health Professions 
Education, Maastricht University, Maastricht, The Netherlands.
(8)Trimbos Institute, Netherlands Institute of Mental Health and Addiction, 
Utrecht, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVE: The objective of this (trial-based) economic evaluation was, from a 
societal perspective, to compare the cost-effectiveness of a multicomponent 
self-management intervention (MCI) with care as usual (CAU) in adult patients 
with epilepsy over a 12-month period.
METHODS: In a randomized-controlled trial, participants were randomized into 
intervention or CAU group. Adherence, self-efficacy (Epilepsy Self-Efficacy 
Scale [ESES]), quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), healthcare costs, production 
losses, and patient and family costs were assessed at baseline and during the 
12-month study period. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) (i.e., cost 
per increased adherence, self-efficacy, or QALY), and cost-effectiveness 
acceptability curves were calculated.
RESULTS: In total, 102 patients were included in the study, of whom 52 were in 
the intervention group. Adherence rates over 6 months were 63.7% for the CAU 
group and 75.9% for the intervention group. Adherence, ESES, and quality of life 
did not differ significantly between groups. An ICER of €54 per point increase 
in ESES score at 6 months and €1,105 per point increase at 12-month follow-up 
was found. The intervention resulted in an ICER of €88 per percentage of 
adherence increase at 6 months. ICERs of €8,272 and €15,144 per QALY gained were 
found at 6- and 12-month follow-up, respectively.
SIGNIFICANCE: Although no statistically significant difference was found after 
baseline adjustments, cost-effectiveness estimates for MCI appear promising. As 
rules of inference are arbitrary, it has been argued that decisions should be 
based only on the net benefits, irrespective of whether differences are 
statistically significant. Hence, the MCI may be a cost-effective addition to 
the current standard care for adults with epilepsy.

Wiley Periodicals, Inc. © 2017 International League Against Epilepsy.

DOI: 10.1111/epi.13806
PMID: 28589669 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


134. Psychogeriatrics. 2017 Nov;17(6):439-445. doi: 10.1111/psyg.12273. Epub 2017
Jun  6.

Functional capacity and obesity reflect the cognitive performance of older 
adults living in long-term care facilities.

Gonçalves Damascena K(1), Batisti Ferreira C(1)(2), Dos Santos Teixeira P(1)(3), 
Madrid B(3), Gonçalves A(3), Córdova C(4), de Toledo Nóbrega O(2), Pimentel 
Ferreira A(1)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Interdisciplinary Center for Research, Integrated Colleges Promove Brasília, 
Brasília, Brazil.
(2)Graduation Program on Medical Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, University of 
Brasilia, Brasília, Brazil.
(3)Group Studies in Exercise Physiology and Health, Catholic University of 
Brasília, Brasília, Brazil.
(4)Graduation Program on Physical Education, Catholic University of Brasília, 
Brasília, Brazil.

BACKGROUND: With the increase in life expectancy, the elderly Brazilian 
population has grown considerably. However, longevity is usually accompanied by 
problems such as the loss of functional capacity, cognitive decline, and 
deterioration in anthropometric parameters, particularly among those living in 
long-term care facilities. We analyzed the relationship among cognitive 
performance, anthropometry, and functional capacity in institutionalized elderly 
individuals.
METHODS: In a sample of 38 older adults (20 men, 18 women) aged 
73.4 ± 8.1 years, data regarding anthropometric and functional measurements as 
well as the Mini-Mental State Examination were collected. Functional tests were 
based on a battery adapted from the Functional Fitness Test. The independent 
t-test and χ2 test were applied. P < 0.05 was set as the significance threshold.
RESULTS: The rate of cognitive impairment among obese individuals (78.6%) 
differed from that among eutrophic subjects (45.8%), but there was no difference 
between sexes. There was a significant positive correlation between handgrip 
strength and Mini-Mental State Examination score, and the scores of the timed 
up-and-go test and the sitting-rising test were negatively correlated with 
Mini-Mental State Examination score.
CONCLUSION: Cognitive impairment in the elderly living in long-term care 
facilities was more pronounced and frequent in obese individuals. This study 
also demonstrated that better functional capacity reflects better cognitive 
performance.

© 2017 Japanese Psychogeriatric Society.

DOI: 10.1111/psyg.12273
PMID: 28589705 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


135. Nurs Stand. 2017 Jun 7;31(41):17. doi: 10.7748/ns.31.41.17.s20.

Life expectancy rises for people with HIV, study finds.

[No authors listed]

Life expectancy for 20 year olds starting treatment for HIV has increased by ten 
years in Europe and the US since antiretroviral therapy began in the mid-1990s, 
an analysis shows.

DOI: 10.7748/ns.31.41.17.s20
PMID: 28589805


136. Zoolog Sci. 2017 Jun;34(3):229-234. doi: 10.2108/zs160182.

Factors Related to Altitudinal Body Size Variation in the Earthworm-Eating 
Ground Beetle Carabus japonicus.

Okuzaki Y(1), Sota T(2).

Author information:
(1)1 Field Science Center for Northern Biosphere, Hokkaido University, Kita, 
Sapporo 060-0811, Japan.
(2)2 Department of Zoology, Graduate School of Science, Kyoto University, Sakyo, 
Kyoto 606-8502, Japan.

To understand geographic body size variation in an insect species, various 
factors including habitat temperature, correlation between life history traits, 
and food availability must be examined. Carabus (Ohomopterus) japonicus is 
univoltine, feeds exclusively on earthworms during its larval stage, and shows a 
clinal body size variation along the habitat temperature gradient in northern 
Kyushu, Japan. Carabus japonicus occurs at both high and low altitudes; at high 
altitudes it coexists with a larger species, C. (O.) dehaanii. At low altitudes, 
C. japonicus shows larger body sizes. We sought to determine whether this 
increase in body size is only an adaptation to high habitat temperatures in the 
absence of C. dehaanii, and examined the life history of C. japonicus and 
seasonal trends in prey earthworms at six sites between altitudes of 30 and 980 
m. While high-altitude populations used the entire warm season for reproduction 
and larval development, low-altitude populations showed shorter periods of 
reproductive activity and larval incidence coincided with seasonal trends in 
earthworm abundance. Thus, C. japonicus attained larger body sizes at lower 
altitudes without a notable extension of their juvenile period. At lower 
altitudes, earthworms grew faster and reached sizes, which may be too large for 
predation by small carabid larvae. Large females had higher fecundity, and laid 
larger eggs, from which larger first instar larvae hatch. The large body size of 
C. japonicus in warm habitats may thus be an adaptation not only for high 
fecundity, but also for producing large first instar larvae to more efficiently 
prey on large earthworms.

DOI: 10.2108/zs160182
PMID: 28589848 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


137. The Application of Salutogenesis to Correctional Officers in Corrections 
Settings.

Henning RA(1)(2), Zweber ZM(1)(2), Bizarro AM(1)(2), Bauerle T(1)(2), Tubbs 
DC(1)(2), Reeves D(3).

In: Mittelmark MB(4), Sagy S(5), Eriksson M(6), Bauer GF(7), Pelikan JM(8), 
Lindström B(9), Espnes GA(10), editors. The Handbook of Salutogenesis 
[Internet]. Cham (CH): Springer; 2017. Chapter 24.
2016 Sep 3.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychological Sciences, University of Connecticut, Storrs, CT, 
USA
(2)The Center for the Promotion of Health in the New England Workplace, 
University of Connecticut and University of Massachusetts, Lowell, USA
(3)Sirota Consulting, Purchase, New York, NY, USA
(4)Department of Health Promotion and Development, University of Bergen, Bergen, 
Norway
(5)Martin Springer Center for Conflict Studies and Department of Education, 
Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, Beersheba, Israel
(6)Department of Health Sciences, University West, Trollhättan, Sweden
(7)Division of Public and Organizational Health, Epidemiology, Biostatistics and 
Prevention Institute, University of Zürich, Zürich, Switzerland
(8)WHO-CC Health Promotion in Hospitals and Health Care, Ludwig Boltzmann 
Institute Health Promotion Research, Vienna, Austria
(9)NTNU Center for Health Promotion and Resources, Norwegian University of 
Science and Technology, Trondheim, Norway
(10)NTNU Center for Health Promotion Research, Norwegian University of Science 
and Technology, Trondheim, Norway

This chapter introduces the emerging literature on salutogenesis in corrections 
workers. Correctional officers have one of the most stressful jobs in our 
society yet have been largely neglected in occupational safety and health 
research. Correctional officers are at increased risk for cardiovascular, 
musculoskeletal, and posttraumatic stress disorders, and suffer from suicide 
rates nearly triple of those observed among the general population and in other 
related occupations. Actuarial tables indicate a 12–15-year life expectancy gap 
between correctional officers and the general population. In an effort to 
examine some of the root causes of these health problems in corrections, we 
begin by reporting findings that emerged from a focus group study on 
correctional officer stress, and highlight why Antonovsky’s theory is so 
relevant to correctional officers. Existing research is then reviewed that 
provides evidence for the potential role individual sense of coherence and 
salutogenic health promotion programs could play in mitigating the effects of 
workplace stress. A set of recommendations are made for planning salutogenic 
interventions in corrections, including assessing the organizational health 
climate and correctional officers’ perceptions of the health-promoting qualities 
of their workplace. Salutogenic aspects of a programmatic approach that has been 
used successfully to engage corrections staff in the design of workplace 
interventions to benefit both worker health protection and promotion are 
reviewed, and an experimental officer-led health mentoring program is described 
that was shaped, in part, by application of salutogenic principles. Future 
research needs and application areas in corrections are also discussed.

Copyright 2017, The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-04600-6_24
PMID: 28590658


138. PLoS One. 2017 Jun 7;12(6):e0178813. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0178813. 
eCollection 2017.

Dispersal strategies in the highly polygynous ant Crematogaster (Orthocrema) 
pygmaea Forel (Formicidae: Myrmicinae).

Hamidi R(1), de Biseau JC(1), Bourguignon T(2)(3)(4), Martins Segundo GB(5), 
Fontenelle MTMB(5), Quinet Y(5).

Author information:
(1)Evolutionary Biology and Ecology, Université Libre de Bruxelles, Brussels, 
Belgium.
(2)School of Life and Environmental Sciences, University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, 
2006, Australia.
(3)Faculty of Forestry and Wood Sciences, Czech University of Life Sciences, 
Prague, Czech Republic.
(4)Okinawa Institute of Science & Technology Graduate University, 1919-1 Tancha, 
Onna-son, Okinawa, 904-0495, Japan.
(5)Laboratório de Entomologia, Instituto Superior de Ciências Biomédicas, 
Universidade Estadual do Ceará, Fortaleza, Brazil.

Erratum in
    PLoS One. 2017 Sep 28;12 (9):e0185878.

In ants, dispersal strategies and morphology of female sexuals are generally 
linked to the mode of colony founding. In species using long-range dispersal 
tactics, queen/worker dimorphism is generally high and young queens are able to 
initiate new colonies by themselves, using their metabolic reserves. By 
contrast, in species using short-range dispersal strategies, queen/worker 
dimorphism is generally low and, due to their limited metabolic reserves, queens 
have lost the capacity to raise their brood alone and to found their colony 
independently. Moreover, polygyny is also often associated with short-range 
dispersal strategies, although the relationship between the number of queens and 
the dispersal strategy in ants is not clear-cut. Here, dispersal strategies were 
investigated in C. pygmaea, a highly polygynous and polydomous ant species from 
northeastern Brazil. Field observations and laboratory experiments show that 
this ant exhibits a suite of traits that are more commonly associated with 
long-range dispersal and independent colony foundation: functional wings in both 
males and females, high queen/worker dimorphism, strong weight loss in mature 
queens, nuptial flights and, in the lab, ability of young queens to found new 
colonies in haplometrotic conditions. On the other hand, this species shows a 
high degree of polygyny with a strong seasonal component, and, at least under 
laboratory conditions, mature queens seem able to develop propagules if they are 
accompanied by at least 10 workers. These features strongly suggest that (1) 
some of the gynes do not engage in a long-range dispersal but become new queens 
in their mother colony and (2) that budding events are possible in this species. 
We therefore speculate that C. pygmaea has a dual dispersal strategy probably 
related to environmental conditions: some gynes engage in long-range dispersal 
followed by independent colony foundation at the beginning of rainy season, 
while others mate in the parental colony and are re-adopted leading to high 
polygyny. During the rainy season, budding events can lead to colony extension 
and increased polydomy. Polydomy is commonly thought to improve resource 
discovery and exploitation through decentralized foraging behavior, a 
significant advantage during the rainy season when food ressources (mainly 
floral/extrafloral nectaries and hemipteran honeydew) are more abundant and when 
colony needs for food supplies are highest.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0178813
PMCID: PMC5462381
PMID: 28591211 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


139. Rev Saude Publica. 2017 Jun 1;51(suppl 1):7s. doi: 
10.1590/S1518-8787.2017051000105.

Inequalities in healthy life expectancy by Federated States.

Szwarcwald CL(1), Montilla DER(1), Marques AP(1), Damacena GN(1), Almeida 
WDS(1), Malta DC(2).

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Comunicação e Informação Científica e Tecnológica em Saúde. 
Fundação Oswaldo Cruz. Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brasil.
(2)Departamento de Enfermagem Materno Infantil e Saúde Pública. Escola de 
Enfermagem. Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais. Belo Horizonte, MG, Brasil.

OBJECTIVES: To estimate the healthy life expectancy at 60 years by sex and 
Federated States and to investigate geographical inequalities by socioeconomic 
status.
METHODS: Healthy life expectancy was estimated by the Sullivan method, based on 
the information of the National Survey on Health, 2013. Three criteria were 
adopted for the definition of "unhealthy state": self-assessment of bad health, 
functionality for performing the activities of daily living, and the presence of 
noncommunicable disease with intense degree of limitation. The indicator of 
socioeconomic status was built based on the number of goods at household and 
educational level of the head of household. To analyze the geographical 
inequalities and socioeconomic level, inequality measures were calculated, such 
as the ratio, the difference, and the angular coefficient.
RESULTS: Healthy life expectancy among men ranged from 13.8 (Alagoas) to 20.9 
(Espírito Santo) for the self-assessment criterion of bad health. Among women, 
the corresponding estimates were always higher and ranged from 14.9 (Maranhão) 
to 22.2 (São Paulo). As to the ratio of inequality by Federated State, the 
medians were always higher for healthy life expectancy than for life expectancy, 
regardless of the definition adopted for healthy state. Regarding the 
differences per Federated State, the healthy life expectancy was seven years 
higher in one state than in another. By socioeconomic status, differences of 
three and four years were found, approximately, between the last and first 
fifth, for men and women, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite the association of the mortality indicators with living 
conditions, the inequalities are even more pronounced when the welfare and the 
limitations in usual activities are considered, showing the necessity to promote 
actions and programs to reduce the socio-spatial gradient.

Publisher: OBJETIVO: Estimar a esperança de vida saudável aos 60 anos por sexo e 
Unidade da Federação e investigar as desigualdades geográficas e por nível 
socioeconômico.
MÉTODOS: A esperança de vida saudável foi estimada pelo método de Sullivan, com 
base nas informações da Pesquisa Nacional de Saúde, 2013. Foram adotados três 
critérios para definição de estado "não saudável": autoavaliação de saúde ruim, 
funcionalidade para realização das atividades da vida diária, e presença de 
doença crônica não transmissível com grau intenso de limitação. O indicador de 
nível socioeconômico foi construído com base no número de bens no domicílio e 
grau de escolaridade do responsável. Para analisar as desigualdades geográficas 
e por nível socioeconômico, foram calculadas medidas de desigualdade, como a 
razão, a diferença e o coeficiente angular.
RESULTADOS: A esperança de vida saudável entre os homens variou de 13,8 
(Alagoas) a 20,9 (Espírito Santo) para o critério de autoavaliação de saúde 
ruim. Entre as mulheres, as estimativas correspondentes foram sempre mais altas 
e variaram de 14,9 (Maranhão) a 22,2 (São Paulo). Quanto à razão de 
desigualdades por Unidade da Federação, as medianas foram sempre maiores para a 
esperança de vida saudável do que para a esperança de vida, independentemente da 
definição adotada para estado saudável. Quanto às diferenças por Unidade da 
Federação, a esperança de vida saudável chegou a ser sete anos maior em um 
estado do que em outro. Por nível socioeconômico, foram encontradas diferenças 
de três e quatro anos, aproximadamente, entre os últimos e primeiro quintos, 
para homens e mulheres, respectivamente.
CONCLUSÕES: Além de os indicadores de mortalidade estarem associados às 
condições de vida, as desigualdades são ainda mais pronunciadas quando o 
bem-estar e as limitações nas atividades habituais são levados em consideração, 
mostrando a necessidade de promover ações e programas para diminuir o gradiente 
socioespacial.

OBJETIVO: Estimar a esperança de vida saudável aos 60 anos por sexo e Unidade da 
Federação e investigar as desigualdades geográficas e por nível socioeconômico.
MÉTODOS: A esperança de vida saudável foi estimada pelo método de Sullivan, com 
base nas informações da Pesquisa Nacional de Saúde, 2013. Foram adotados três 
critérios para definição de estado “não saudável”: autoavaliação de saúde ruim, 
funcionalidade para realização das atividades da vida diária, e presença de 
doença crônica não transmissível com grau intenso de limitação. O indicador de 
nível socioeconômico foi construído com base no número de bens no domicílio e 
grau de escolaridade do responsável. Para analisar as desigualdades geográficas 
e por nível socioeconômico, foram calculadas medidas de desigualdade, como a 
razão, a diferença e o coeficiente angular.
RESULTADOS: A esperança de vida saudável entre os homens variou de 13,8 
(Alagoas) a 20,9 (Espírito Santo) para o critério de autoavaliação de saúde 
ruim. Entre as mulheres, as estimativas correspondentes foram sempre mais altas 
e variaram de 14,9 (Maranhão) a 22,2 (São Paulo). Quanto à razão de 
desigualdades por Unidade da Federação, as medianas foram sempre maiores para a 
esperança de vida saudável do que para a esperança de vida, independentemente da 
definição adotada para estado saudável. Quanto às diferenças por Unidade da 
Federação, a esperança de vida saudável chegou a ser sete anos maior em um 
estado do que em outro. Por nível socioeconômico, foram encontradas diferenças 
de três e quatro anos, aproximadamente, entre os últimos e primeiro quintos, 
para homens e mulheres, respectivamente.
CONCLUSÕES: Além de os indicadores de mortalidade estarem associados às 
condições de vida, as desigualdades são ainda mais pronunciadas quando o 
bem-estar e as limitações nas atividades habituais são levados em consideração, 
mostrando a necessidade de promover ações e programas para diminuir o gradiente 
socioespacial.

DOI: 10.1590/S1518-8787.2017051000105
PMCID: PMC5676373
PMID: 28591354 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interests: The authors declare no 
conflict of interest.


140. Cad Saude Publica. 2017 Jun 1;33(4):e00053415. doi:
10.1590/0102-311X00053415.

[Vulnerability to HIV infection in serodiscordant couples in Rio de Janeiro, 
Brazil].

[Article in Portuguese]

Fernandes NM(1), Hennington ÉA(2), Bernardes JS(3), Grinsztejn BG(1).

Author information:
(1)Instituto Nacional de Infectologia Evandro Chagas, Fundação Oswaldo Cruz, Rio 
de Janeiro, Brasil.
(2)Escola Nacional de Saúde Pública Sergio Arouca, Fundação Oswaldo Cruz, Rio de 
Janeiro, Brasil.
(3)Universidade Federal de Alagoas, Maceió, Brasil.

A new era in HIV/AIDS treatment began in 1996 with the advent of highly active 
antiretroviral therapy (HAART). The advent of these new medicines expanded the 
treatment resources and improved life expectancy and quality of life for persons 
living with HIV and AIDS, favoring the maintenance and initiation of 
relationships between partners with discordant HIV serological status. The main 
objective of this study with serodiscordant couples was to understand the three 
dimensions of vulnerability - programmatic, social, and individual - in these 
couples. The study, belonging to the field of social constructionism, used 
analysis of discursive practices and production of meanings. Forty in-depth 
interviews were conducted with couples followed in a clinical research 
institute. The main results include the lack of information on sexuality in the 
family and in schools, distorted knowledge on HIV prevention and transmission, 
inadequacies in HIV testing, and flaws in communicating test results.

DOI: 10.1590/0102-311X00053415
PMID: 28591373 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


141. Rev Med Inst Mex Seguro Soc. 2017 Jul-Aug;55(4):441-451.

[Methodologies for estimating the indirect costs of traffic accidents].

[Article in Spanish; Abstract available in Spanish from the publisher]

Carozzi S(1), Elorza ME, Moscoso NS, Ripari NV.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Economía, Universidad Nacional del Sur, Bahía Blanca, Buenos 
Aires, Argentina. soledadcarozzi@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Traffic accidents generate multiple costs to society, including 
those associated with the loss of productivity. However, there is no consensus 
about the most appropriate methodology for estimating those costs. The aim of 
this study was to review methods for estimating indirect costs applied in crash 
cost studies.
METHODS: A thematic review of the literature was carried out between 1995 and 
2012 in PubMed with the terms cost of illness, indirect cost, road traffic 
injuries, productivity loss.
RESULTS: For the assessment of costs we used the the human capital method, on 
the basis of the wage-income lost during the time of treatment and recovery of 
patients and caregivers. In the case of premature death or total disability, the 
discount rate was applied to obtain the present value of lost future earnings. 
The computed years arose by subtracting to life expectancy at birth the average 
age of those affected who are not incorporated into the economically active 
life.
CONCLUSIONS: The interest in minimizing the problem is reflected in the 
evolution of the implemented methodologies. We expect that this review is useful 
to estimate efficiently the real indirect costs of traffic accidents.

Publisher: Introducción: los accidentes de tránsito generan múltiples costos a 
la sociedad, entre ellos los vinculados con la pérdida de productividad de los 
afectados. Sin embargo, no existe consenso respecto a la metodología más 
apropiada para su estimación. Por lo tanto, el objetivo fue revisar los métodos 
de estimación de costos indirectos aplicados en los estudios de costos de 
accidentes de tránsito. Métodos: se realizó una revisión temática de la 
literatura entre 1995 y 2012 en PubMed con los términos cost of illness, 
indirect cost, road traffic injuries, productivity loss. Resultados: para su 
valoración usamos el método del capital humano, a partir del salario-ingreso 
perdido por el tiempo de tratamiento y la recuperación del paciente y los 
cuidadores. En el caso de muerte prematura o discapacidad total se aplicó la 
tasa de descuento para obtener el valor presente de los ingresos futuros 
perdidos. Los años a computarse surgieron de restarle a la esperanza de vida al 
nacer la edad promedio de los afectados que no se incorporan a la vida 
económicamente activa. Conclusiones: el interés por minimizar el problema se 
refleja en la evolución de las metodologías implementadas. Se espera que esta 
revisión sea un aporte para estimar mejor los costos indirectos reales que 
ocasionan los accidentes de tránsito.

PMID: 28591498 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


142. Rev Med Inst Mex Seguro Soc. 2017 Jul-Aug;55(4):512-516.

[Persists the controversy concerning the rutinary use of diagnostic tests in 
asymptomatic persons].

[Article in Spanish; Abstract available in Spanish from the publisher]

Zárate A(1), Hernández-Valencia M, Basurto L, Saucedo R.

Author information:
(1)Unidad de Investigación en Enfermedades Endocrinas, Diabetes y Metabolismo, 
Hospital de Especialidades, Centro Médico Nacional Siglo XXI, Instituto Mexicano 
del Seguro Social, Ciudad de México, México. zaratre@att.net.mx.

Currently, in medicine there is an environment replete with controversy and 
debate, partially due to the popular concept Evidence-Based Medicine, and to the 
development of technological advances and, apparently, better therapeutic 
resources. This has led to the establishment of an over-diagnosis epidemic and 
to an excess of therapeutic interventions, which do not necessarily lead to a 
longer life expectancy. Some medical controversies, which have called the 
attention of physicians and even of common people are those related with 
dislipoproteinemias, pre-diabetes and detection of cancer in asymptomatic 
persons. The debate and the controversy will surely continue and that is why it 
is very important to emphasize that clinical practice should be personalized, 
taking into account risks and implied benefits.

Publisher: En la actualidad existe en medicina un ambiente repleto de 
controversias y debates, en parte generado por la popularidad del concepto de 
medicina basada en evidencia y por la aparición de avances tecnológicos y 
aparentemente mejores recursos terapéuticos. Esto ha llevado a la instalación de 
una epidemia diagnóstica y a una excesiva politerapéutica que no se traducen en 
una más larga expectativa de vida. Algunas controversias médicas que han llamado 
la atención de los médicos e incluso del público en general son las relacionadas 
con los tópicos de dislipoproteinemia, prediabetes y detección de cáncer en 
personas asintomáticas. El debate y la controversia seguramente continuarán y 
por ello resalta la importancia de la práctica médica en la individualidad, 
tomando en cuenta los riesgos y los beneficios implicados.

PMID: 28591506 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


143. BMC Geriatr. 2017 Jun 7;17(1):122. doi: 10.1186/s12877-017-0511-7.

The intention of Dutch general practitioners to offer vaccination against 
pneumococcal disease, herpes zoster and pertussis to people aged 60 years and 
older.

Lehmann BA(1), Eilers R(2)(3), Mollema L(2), Ferreira J(2), de Melker HE(2).

Author information:
(1)Center for Infectious Disease Control, National Institute for Public Health 
and the Environment (RIVM), Bilthoven, The Netherlands. birthe.lehmann@rivm.nl.
(2)Center for Infectious Disease Control, National Institute for Public Health 
and the Environment (RIVM), Bilthoven, The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Epidemiology, University of Groningen, University Medical 
Center Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Increasing life expectancy results in a larger proportion of older 
people susceptible to vaccine preventable diseases (VPDs). In the Netherlands, 
influenza vaccination is routinely offered to people aged 60 years and older. 
Vaccination against pneumococcal disease, herpes zoster and pertussis is rarely 
used. These vaccines will be evaluated by the Dutch Health Council and might be 
routinely offered to older people in the near future. Possible expansion of the 
program depends partly on the willingness of general practitioners (GPs) to 
endorse additional vaccinations. In this study, we assessed predictors of GPs' 
attitude and intention to vaccinate people aged 60 years and older.
METHODS: GPs (N = 12.194) were invited to fill in an online questionnaire 
consisting of questions about social cognitive factors that can influence the 
willingness of GPs to vaccinate people aged 60 years and older, including 
underlying beliefs, practical considerations of adding more vaccines to the 
national program, demographics, and GPs' patient population characteristics. The 
questionnaire was filled in by 732 GPs.
RESULTS: GPs were positive both about vaccination as a preventive tool and the 
influenza vaccination program, but somewhat less positive about expanding the 
current program. Prediction analysis showed that the intention of GPs to offer 
additional vaccination was predicted by their attitude towards offering 
additional vaccination, towards vaccination as a preventive tool, towards 
offering vaccination during an outbreak and on GPs opinion regarding suitability 
to offer additional vaccination (R2 = 0.60). The attitude of GPs towards 
offering additional vaccination was predicted by the perceived severity of 
herpes zoster and pneumonia, as well as the perceived incidence of herpes 
zoster. Severity of diseases was ranked as important argument to recommend 
vaccination, followed by effectiveness and health benefits of vaccines.
CONCLUSION: Providing GPs with evidence-based information about the severity and 
prevalence of diseases, and effectiveness and health benefits of the vaccines, 
together with an active role of GPs in informing older people about vaccines, 
could modify the intention towards additional vaccination of people 60 years and 
older.

DOI: 10.1186/s12877-017-0511-7
PMCID: PMC5463354
PMID: 28592229 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


144. J Med Internet Res. 2017 Jun 7;19(6):e196. doi: 10.2196/jmir.7303.

Social Media Use and Access to Digital Technology in US Young Adults in 2016.

Villanti AC(1)(2)(3), Johnson AL(1), Ilakkuvan V(4), Jacobs MA(5), Graham 
AL(1)(5)(6), Rath JM(3)(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Schroeder Institute for Tobacco Research and Policy Studies at Truth 
Initiative, Washington, DC, United States.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, University of Vermont, Burlington, VT, United 
States.
(3)Department of Health, Behavior & Society, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of 
Public Health, Baltimore, MD, United States.
(4)Milken Institute School of Public Health, Department of Prevention and 
Community Health, George Washington University, Washington, DC, United States.
(5)Innovations, Truth Initiative, Washington, DC, United States.
(6)Department of Oncology, Georgetown University Medical Center/Cancer 
Prevention & Control Program, Lombardi Comprehensive Cancer Center, Washington, 
DC, United States.
(7)Evaluation Science and Research, Truth Initiative, Washington, DC, United 
States.
(8)Department of Behavioral and Community Health, University of Maryland School 
of Public Health, College Park, MD, United States.

BACKGROUND: In 2015, 90% of US young adults with Internet access used social 
media. Digital and social media are highly prevalent modalities through which 
young adults explore identity formation, and by extension, learn and transmit 
norms about health and risk behaviors during this developmental life stage.
OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to provide updated estimates of social 
media use from 2014 to 2016 and correlates of social media use and access to 
digital technology in data collected from a national sample of US young adults 
in 2016.
METHODS: Young adult participants aged 18-24 years in Wave 7 (October 2014, 
N=1259) and Wave 9 (February 2016, N=989) of the Truth Initiative Young Adult 
Cohort Study were asked about use frequency for 11 social media sites and access 
to digital devices, in addition to sociodemographic characteristics. Regular use 
was defined as using a given social media site at least weekly. Weighted 
analyses estimated the prevalence of use of each social media site, overlap 
between regular use of specific sites, and correlates of using a greater number 
of social media sites regularly. Bivariate analyses identified sociodemographic 
correlates of access to specific digital devices.
RESULTS: In 2014, 89.42% (weighted n, 1126/1298) of young adults reported 
regular use of at least one social media site. This increased to 97.5% (weighted 
n, 965/989) of young adults in 2016. Among regular users of social media sites 
in 2016, the top five sites were Tumblr (85.5%), Vine (84.7%), Snapchat (81.7%), 
Instagram (80.7%), and LinkedIn (78.9%). Respondents reported regularly using an 
average of 7.6 social media sites, with 85% using 6 or more sites regularly. 
Overall, 87% of young adults reported access or use of a smartphone with 
Internet access, 74% a desktop or laptop computer with Internet access, 41% a 
tablet with Internet access, 29% a smart TV or video game console with Internet 
access, 11% a cell phone without Internet access, and 3% none of these. Access 
to all digital devices with Internet was lower in those reporting a lower 
subjective financial situation; there were also significant differences in 
access to specific digital devices with Internet by race, ethnicity, and 
education.
CONCLUSIONS: The high mean number of social media sites used regularly and the 
substantial overlap in use of multiple social media sites reflect the rapidly 
changing social media environment. Mobile devices are a primary channel for 
social media, and our study highlights disparities in access to digital 
technologies with Internet access among US young adults by race/ethnicity, 
education, and subjective financial status. Findings from this study may guide 
the development and implementation of future health interventions for young 
adults delivered via the Internet or social media sites.

©Andrea C Villanti, Amanda L Johnson, Vinu Ilakkuvan, Megan A Jacobs, Amanda L 
Graham, Jessica M Rath. Originally published in the Journal of Medical Internet 
Research (http://www.jmir.org), 07.06.2017.

DOI: 10.2196/jmir.7303
PMCID: PMC5480010
PMID: 28592394 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: None declared.


145. J Virol. 2017 Jul 27;91(16):e00801-17. doi: 10.1128/JVI.00801-17. Print 2017
Aug  15.

Role of Autophagy in HIV-1 Matrix Protein p17-Driven Lymphangiogenesis.

Mazzuca P(1), Marsico S(2), Schulze K(3), Mitola S(1), Pils MC(3), Giagulli 
C(1), Guzman CA(3), Caruso A(1), Caccuri F(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular and Translational Medicine, University of Brescia 
Medical School, Brescia, Italy.
(2)Department of Pharmacy, Health and Nutritional Sciences, University of 
Calabria, Arcavacata di Rende, Cosenza, Italy.
(3)Helmholtz Centre for Infection Research, Braunschweig, Germany.
(4)Department of Molecular and Translational Medicine, University of Brescia 
Medical School, Brescia, Italy francesca.caccuri@unibs.it.

AIDS-related lymphomas (ARLs) are expected to increase in the future since 
combined antiretroviral therapy (cART) enhances the life expectancy of 
HIV-1-infected (HIV+) patients but does not affect the occurrence of ARLs to the 
same extent as that of other tumors. Lymphangiogenesis is essential in 
supporting growth and metastatic spreading of ARLs. HIV-1 does not infect the 
neoplastic B cells, but HIV-1 proteins have been hypothesized to play a key role 
in sustaining a prolymphangiogenic microenvironment in lymphoid organs. The 
HIV-1 matrix protein p17 is detected in blood and accumulates in the germinal 
centers of lymph nodes of HIV+ patients under successful cART. The viral protein 
displays potent lymphangiogenic activity in vitro and in vivo This is, at least 
in part, mediated by the secretion of the lymphangiogenic factor endothelin-1, 
suggesting that activation of a secretory pathway sustains the lymphangiogenic 
activity of p17. Here, we show that the p17 lymphangiogenic activity occurs on 
human lymph node-derived lymphatic endothelial cells (LN-LECs) under stress 
conditions only and relies entirely on activation of an autophagy-based pathway. 
In fact, induction of autophagy by p17 promotes lymphangiogenesis, whereas 
pharmacological and genetic inhibition of autophagy inhibits p17-triggered 
lymphangiogenesis. Similarly, the vasculogenic activity of p17 was totally 
inhibited in autophagy-incompetent mice. Our findings reveal a previously 
unrecognized role of autophagy in lymphangiogenesis and open the way to identify 
novel treatment strategies aimed at inhibiting aberrant tumor-driven 
lymphangiogenesis in HIV+ patients.IMPORTANCE AIDS-related lymphomas (ARLs) are 
the most common malignancies in HIV-1-infected (HIV+) patients after the 
introduction of combined antiretroviral therapy (cART). Lymphangiogenesis is of 
critical importance in sustaining growth and metastasis of ARLs. Indeed, 
enhanced lymphangiogenesis occurs in the lymph nodes of HIV+ patients under 
successful cART. The HIV-1 matrix protein p17 is detected in blood and 
accumulates in the lymph node germinal centers even in the absence of virus 
replication. Several findings suggest a key role for p17 as a microenvironmental 
factor capable of promoting lymphangiogenesis. Here, we show that p17 promotes 
lymphangiogenesis of human lymph node-derived lymphatic endothelial cells 
(LN-LECs). The lymphangiogenic activity of p17 is sustained by an 
autophagy-based pathway that enables LN-LECs to release prolymphangiogenic 
factors into the extracellular microenvironment. Our findings indicate that 
specific targeting of autophagy may provide an important new tool for treating 
ARLs.

Copyright © 2017 American Society for Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.00801-17
PMCID: PMC5533914
PMID: 28592537 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


146. Oncologist. 2017 Jun;22(6):694-699. doi: 10.1634/theoncologist.2016-0455.
Epub  2017 Jun 7.

Bevacizumab for Metastatic Colorectal Cancer: A Global Cost-Effectiveness 
Analysis.

Goldstein DA(1)(2), Chen Q(3), Ayer T(3), Chan KKW(4)(5), Virik K(6), Hammerman 
A(7), Brenner B(8)(9), Flowers CR(2), Hall PS(10).

Author information:
(1)Davidoff Center, Rabin Medical Center, Petach, Tikvah, Israel 
dgolds8@emory.edu.
(2)Winship Cancer Institute, Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia, USA.
(3)H. Milton Stewart School of Industrial & Systems Engineering, Georgia 
Institute of Technology, Atlanta, Georgia, USA.
(4)Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre, Toronto, Canada.
(5)Canadian Centre for Applied Research in Cancer Control, Vancouver, British 
Columbia, Canada.
(6)Department of Medicine, University of Tasmania, Tasmania, Australia.
(7)Clalit Health Services Headquarters, Tel Aviv, Israel.
(8)Davidoff Center, Rabin Medical Center, Petach, Tikvah, Israel.
(9)Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel-Aviv University, Ramat Aviv, Tel-Aviv, 
Israel.
(10)Edinburgh Cancer Research Centre, University of Edinburgh, United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: In the U.S., the addition of bevacizumab to first-line chemotherapy 
in metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) has been demonstrated to provide 0.10 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) at an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
(ICER) of $571,000/QALY. Due to variability in pricing, value for money may be 
different in other countries. Our objective was to establish the 
cost-effectiveness of bevacizumab in mCRC in the U.S., U.K., Canada, Australia, 
and Israel.
METHODS: We performed the analysis using a previously established Markov model 
for mCRC. Input data for efficacy, adverse events, and quality of life were 
considered to be generalizable and therefore identical for all countries. We 
used country-specific prices for medications, administration, and other health 
service costs. All costs were converted from local currency to U.S. dollars at 
the exchange rates in March 2016. We conducted one-way and probabilistic 
sensitivity analyses (PSA) to assess the model robustness across parameter 
uncertainties.
RESULTS: Base case results demonstrated that the highest ICER was in the U.S. 
($571,000/QALY) and the lowest was in Australia ($277,000/QALY). In Canada, the 
U.K., and Israel, ICERs ranged between $351,000 and $358,000 per QALY. PSA 
demonstrated 0% likelihood of bevacizumab being cost-effective in any country at 
a willingness to pay threshold of $150,000 per QALY.
CONCLUSION: The addition of bevacizumab to first-line chemotherapy for mCRC 
consistently fails to be cost-effective in all five countries. There are large 
differences in cost-effectiveness between countries. This study provides a 
framework for analyzing the value of a cancer drug from the perspectives of 
multiple international payers.
IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE: The cost-effectiveness of bevacizumab varies 
significantly between multiple countries. By conventional thresholds, 
bevacizumab is not cost-effective in metastatic colon cancer in the U.S., the 
U.K., Australia, Canada, and Israel.

© AlphaMed Press 2017.

DOI: 10.1634/theoncologist.2016-0455
PMCID: PMC5469597
PMID: 28592621 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosures of potential conflicts of interest 
may be found at the end of this article.


147. Plant Pathol J. 2017 Jun;33(3):276-287. doi: 10.5423/PPJ.OA.08.2016.0177.
Epub  2017 Jun 1.

Characterization of the rcsA Gene from Pantoea sp. Strain PPE7 and Its Influence 
on Extracellular Polysaccharide Production and Virulence on Pleurotus eryngii.

Kim MK(1), Lee SM(1), Seuk SW(1), Ryu JS(1), Kim HD(1), Kwon JH(1), Choi YJ(1), 
Yun HD(2).

Author information:
(1)Environment-Friendly Research Division, Gyeongsangnam-do Agricultural 
Research & Extension Services, Jinju 52733, Korea.
(2)Department of Applied Life Chemistry, College of Agriculture and Life 
Science, Gyeongsang National University, JinJu 52828, Korea.

RcsA is a positive activator of extracellular polysaccharide (EPS) synthesis in 
the Enterobacteriaceae. The rcsA gene of the soft rot pathogen Pantoea sp. 
strain PPE7 in Pleurotus eryngii was cloned by PCR amplification, and its role 
in EPS synthesis and virulence was investigated. The RcsA protein contains 3 
highly conserved domains, and the C-terminal end of the open reading frame 
shared significant amino acid homology to the helix-turn-helix DNA binding motif 
of bacterial activator proteins. The inactivation of rcsA by insertional 
mutagenesis created mutants that had decreased production of EPS compared to the 
wild-type strain and abolished the virulence of Pantoea sp. strain PPE7 in P. 
eryngii. The Pantoea sp. strain PPE7 rcsA gene was shown to strongly affect the 
formation of the disease symptoms of a mushroom pathogen and to act as the 
virulence factor to cause soft rot disease in P. eryngii.

DOI: 10.5423/PPJ.OA.08.2016.0177
PMCID: PMC5461046
PMID: 28592946


148. Eur Spine J. 2018 Feb;27(2):264-269. doi: 10.1007/s00586-017-5113-8. Epub
2017  Jun 7.

Tailor-made management of thoracic scoliosis with cervical hyperextension in 
muscular dystrophy.

Angelliaume A(1), Harper L(2), Lalioui A(2), Delgove A(2), Lefèvre Y(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Orthopaedics, Pellegrin University Hospital, Place 
Amélie Raba-Léon, 33076, Bordeaux, France. angelliaume.audrey@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Pediatric Orthopaedics, Pellegrin University Hospital, Place 
Amélie Raba-Léon, 33076, Bordeaux, France.

Comment in
    Eur Spine J. 2018 Feb;27(2):270-271.

PURPOSE: We report the case of a 13-year-old boy managed for fixed cervical 
hyperextension due to congenital muscular dystrophy with partial merosin 
deficiency. He presented a right decompensated thoracic scoliosis (T6-L1 Cobb 
angle 72°) associated with cervical and lumbar lordosis. The spinal extension 
was accompanied by major flexion of the hip resulting in the trunk being bent 
forward. This posture caused daily severe back pain responsible for significant 
loss of quality of life. This led to the decision to perform surgery.
METHODS: Initially, the surgery was limited to the thoraco-lumbo-sacral area. An 
anterior release was done, followed by posterior T1-pelvis vertebral fusion 
using a modified Luque-Galveston technique. The correction achieved was 
satisfactory in the coronal plane, but the correction of the thoracic kyphosis 
was insufficient to compensate for the cervical hyperextension. Cervical spine 
was fixed at 52° of lordosis, and associated with a left 50° rotation and a 
right 45° inclination of the head. We performed a posterior and lateral release 
of the cervical muscles followed by positioning of the halo, itself connected to 
a made-for-measure thoracic corset. A daily adjustment of the threaded rods was 
done daily for 3 months to correct the cervical position. Then, we performed a 
spinal fusion without instrumentation, by posterior articular abrasion and 
grafting from the occiput to T1. Following that, the halo-corset was kept in 
place for 4 months.
RESULTS: At the end of 8 month treatment, the clinical result was satisfactory 
with a balanced spine both face on, and sideways, allowing for comfortable 
painless positioning. At 5 year follow-up, he showed stable spinal fusion 
without any loss of correction.
CONCLUSION: There is no gold standard treatment for cervical hyperextension, but 
approaches have to be tailor-made to the patient's needs and the team's 
experience.

DOI: 10.1007/s00586-017-5113-8
PMID: 28593385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


149. Thromb Haemost. 2017 Jun 28;117(7):1219-1229. doi: 10.1160/TH16-10-0823.
Epub  2017 Jun 8.

Venous thromboembolism: Past, present and future.

Schulman S(1), Ageno W, Konstantinides SV.

Author information:
(1)Sam Schulman, MD, PhD, Thrombosis Service, HHS-General Hospital, 237 Barton 
St E, Hamilton, ON, L8L 2X2, Canada, Tel. : +1 905 5270271, ext 44479, Fax: +1 
905 5211551, E-mail schulms@mcmaster.ca.

Venous thromboembolism (VTE), the third most frequent acute cardiovascular 
syndrome, is associated with a considerable disease burden which continues to 
grow along with the longer life expectancy of the population worldwide. In the 
past century, parenteral heparin prophylaxis was established for hospitalised 
patients at elevated risk of VTE. More recently, non-vitamin K antagonist oral 
anticoagulants (NOACs) with a direct inhibiting effect on factor Xa or thrombin, 
underwent extensive testing in clinical trials and have been approved for 
patients undergoing hip or knee replacement. Clinical investigation is ongoing 
in further areas of thromboprophylaxis, including medical prophylaxis in 
patients and high-risk situations in the outpatient setting. The diagnostic 
approach to suspected VTE is now based on advanced imaging techniques and robust 
diagnostic algorithms which ensure high sensitivity and specificity. 
Nevertheless, the role of clinical, or pre-test, probability assessment remains 
crucial to avoid overdiagnosis and treatment errors. Advances in reperfusion 
strategies, along progressive establishment of the NOACs as the new standard of 
anticoagulation treatment, have simplified the management of VTE, improving 
outcomes and particularly safety. While new molecular targets for 
anticoagulation are being investigated in the quest to further reduce bleeding 
risk, adjusting the initial regimen to the patient's risk and finding the 
optimal duration of anticoagulation after an index VTE event will be some of the 
top priorities in the years to come. Importantly, and in parallel to new drugs 
and technical advances in imaging, incentives such as hospital accreditation and 
funding based on evidence-based practice need to be implemented to increase 
guideline adherence.
