
Precision medicine and drug development in Alzheimer's disease: the importance 
of sexual dimorphism and patient stratification.

Hampel H(1), Vergallo A(2), Giorgi FS(3), Kim SH(4), Depypere H(5), Graziani 
M(6), Saidi A(7), Nisticò R(8), Lista S(9); Alzheimer Precision Medicine 
Initiative (APMI).

Author information:
(1)AXA Research Fund & Sorbonne University Chair, Paris, France; Sorbonne 
University, GRC n° 21, Alzheimer Precision Medicine (APM), AP-HP, 
Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, Boulevard de l'hôpital, F-75013 Paris, France; Brain 
& Spine Institute (ICM), INSERM U 1127, CNRS UMR 7225, Boulevard de l'hôpital, 
F-75013 Paris, France; Institute of Memory and Alzheimer's Disease (IM2A), 
Department of Neurology, Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, AP-HP, Boulevard de 
l'hôpital, F-75013 Paris, France. Electronic address: 
harald.hampel@icm-institute.org.
(2)AXA Research Fund & Sorbonne University Chair, Paris, France; Sorbonne 
University, GRC n° 21, Alzheimer Precision Medicine (APM), AP-HP, 
Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, Boulevard de l'hôpital, F-75013 Paris, France; Brain 
& Spine Institute (ICM), INSERM U 1127, CNRS UMR 7225, Boulevard de l'hôpital, 
F-75013 Paris, France; Institute of Memory and Alzheimer's Disease (IM2A), 
Department of Neurology, Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, AP-HP, Boulevard de 
l'hôpital, F-75013 Paris, France.
(3)Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, University of Pisa, Pisa, 
Italy.
(4)Department of Neurology, College of Medicine, Hanyang University, Seoul, 
Republic of Korea; Cell Therapy Center, Hanyang University Hospital, Seoul, 
Republic of Korea.
(5)Breast and Menopause Clinic, Ghent University Hospital, Corneel Heymanslaan 
10, B-9000 Ghent, Belgium.
(6)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology "Vittorio Erspamer", University of 
Rome "Sapienza", Rome, Italy.
(7)Neuropharmacology Lab, European Brain Research Institute (E.B.R.I.), Rome, 
Italy.
(8)Neuropharmacology Lab, European Brain Research Institute (E.B.R.I.), Rome, 
Italy; Department of Biology, University of Rome "Tor Vergata", Rome, Italy.
(9)AXA Research Fund & Sorbonne University Chair, Paris, France; Sorbonne 
University, GRC n° 21, Alzheimer Precision Medicine (APM), AP-HP, 
Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, Boulevard de l'hôpital, F-75013 Paris, France; Brain 
& Spine Institute (ICM), INSERM U 1127, CNRS UMR 7225, Boulevard de l'hôpital, 
F-75013 Paris, France; Institute of Memory and Alzheimer's Disease (IM2A), 
Department of Neurology, Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, AP-HP, Boulevard de 
l'hôpital, F-75013 Paris, France. Electronic address: 
simone.lista@icm-institute.org.

Neurodegenerative diseases (ND) are among the leading causes of disability and 
mortality. Considerable sex differences exist in the occurrence of the various 
manifestations leading to cognitive decline. Alzheimer's disease (AD) exhibits 
substantial sexual dimorphisms and disproportionately affects women. Women have 
a higher life expectancy compared to men and, consequently, have more lifespan 
to develop AD. The emerging precision medicine and pharmacology concepts - 
taking into account the individual genetic and biological variability relevant 
for disease risk, prevention, detection, diagnosis, and treatment - are expected 
to substantially enhance our knowledge and management of AD. Stratifying the 
affected individuals by sex and gender is an important basic step towards 
personalization of scientific research, drug development, and care. We 
hypothesize that sex and gender differences, extending from genetic to 
psychosocial domains, are highly relevant for the understanding of AD 
pathophysiology, and for the conceptualization of basic/translational research 
and for clinical therapy trial design.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yfrne.2018.06.001
PMID: 29902481 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


182. Biochim Biophys Acta Mol Cell Res. 2018 Sep;1865(9):1239-1249. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbamcr.2018.06.002. Epub 2018 Jun 12.

TGF-β and BMP signals regulate insect diapause through Smad1-POU-TFAM pathway.

Li HY(1), Lin XW(1), Geng SL(1), Xu WH(2).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Biocontrol, School of Life Sciences, Sun Yat-Sen 
University, Guangzhou 510006, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Biocontrol, School of Life Sciences, Sun Yat-Sen 
University, Guangzhou 510006, China. Electronic address: 
xuweihua@mail.sysu.edu.cn.

The transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β) superfamily signaling pathway contains 
two general branches, known as TGF-β and bone morphogenetic protein (BMP), that 
regulate development in animals. It is well known that TGF-β superfamily 
signaling participates in the regulation of dauer (lifespan extension) in 
Caenorhabditis elegans, but little is known about the molecular mechanisms of 
lifespan extension in the pathway. Diapause, a programmed developmental arrest 
in insects, is similar to dauer in C. elegans. In this study, we find that TGF-β 
superfamily signaling regulates Helicoverpa armigera diapause via a novel 
mechanism. Both TGF-β and BMP signals are weaker in the brains of 
diapause-destined pupae than in nondiapause-destined pupae, and the levels of 
p-Smad1, POU, TFAM, and mitochondrial activity are decreased in diapause pupae. 
Development in nondiapause pupae is delayed by an injection of TGF-β or BMP 
receptor inhibitors. Both TGF-β and BMP signals can activate a common target, 
Smad1. ChIP and EMSA assays indicate that Smad1 can bind to the POU promoter to 
regulate its expression. POU can improve the transcription of TFAM, which 
regulates mitochondrial activity. This is the first report showing that both 
TGF-β and BMP signals regulate development or diapause through the 
Smad1-POU-TFAM-mitochondrial activity in insects.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbamcr.2018.06.002
PMID: 29902488 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


183. J Electromyogr Kinesiol. 2018 Aug;41:154-159. doi: 
10.1016/j.jelekin.2018.06.003. Epub 2018 Jun 6.

The effect of eccentric exercise and delayed onset muscle soreness on the 
homologous muscle of the contralateral limb.

Hedayatpour N(1), Izanloo Z(1), Falla D(2).

Author information:
(1)Center for Biomechanics and Motor Control (BMC), Department of Physical 
Education and Sport Science, University of Bojnord, Bojnord, Iran.
(2)Centre of Precision Rehabilitation for Spinal Pain (CPR Spine), School of 
Sport, Exercise and Rehabilitation Sciences, College of Life and Environmental 
Sciences, University of Birmingham, United Kingdom. Electronic address: 
d.falla@bham.ac.uk.

High intensity eccentric exercise induces muscle fiber damage and associated 
delayed-onset muscle soreness (DOMS) resulting in an impaired ability of the 
muscle to generate voluntary force. This study investigates the extent to which 
DOMS, induced by high intensity eccentric exercise, can affect the activation 
and performance of the non-exercised homologous muscle of the contralateral 
limb. Healthy volunteers performed maximal voluntary contractions of knee 
extension and sustained isometric knee extension at 50% of maximal force until 
task failure on both the ipsilateral exercised limb and the contralateral limb. 
Surface electromyography (EMG) was recorded from the ipsilateral and 
contralateral knee extensor muscles (vastus medialis, rectus femoris, and vastus 
lateralis). Maximal isometric knee extension force (13.7% reduction) and time to 
task failure (38.1% reduction) of the contralateral non-exercised leg decreased 
immediately after eccentric exercise, and persisted 24 h and 48 h later 
(p < 0.05). Moreover, the amplitude of muscle activity recorded from the 
contralateral knee extensor muscles was significantly lower during the post 
exercise maximal and submaximal contractions following high intensity eccentric 
exercise of the opposite limb (p < 0.05). Unilateral high intensity eccentric 
exercise of the quadriceps can contribute to reduced neuromuscular activity and 
physical work capacity of the non-exercised homologous muscle in the 
contralateral limb.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jelekin.2018.06.003
PMID: 29902705 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


184. Phys Life Rev. 2019 Oct;30:89-111. doi: 10.1016/j.plrev.2018.04.005. Epub
2018  Apr 27.

Muscleless motor synergies and actions without movements: From motor 
neuroscience to cognitive robotics.

Mohan V(1), Bhat A(2), Morasso P(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Computer Science and Electronic Engineering, University of Essex, 
Wivenhoe Park, CO34SQ, UK. Electronic address: http://www.vishwanathanmohan.com.
(2)Dept. of Psychology, University of East Anglia, UK. Electronic address: 
a.bhat@uea.ac.uk.
(3)Robotics, Brain and Cognitive Sciences Dept., Via Enrico Melen 83, 16152 
Genova, Italy. Electronic address: pietro.morasso@iit.it.

Comment in
    Phys Life Rev. 2019 Oct;30:116-118.
    Phys Life Rev. 2019 Oct;30:112-115.
    Phys Life Rev. 2019 Oct;30:119-121.
    Phys Life Rev. 2019 Oct;30:122-125.
    Phys Life Rev. 2019 Oct;30:126-129.

Emerging trends in neurosciences are providing converging evidence that cortical 
networks in predominantly motor areas are activated in several contexts related 
to 'action' that do not cause any overt movement. Indeed for any complex body, 
human or embodied robot inhabiting unstructured environments, the dual processes 
of shaping motor output during action execution and providing the self with 
information related to feasibility, consequence and understanding of potential 
actions (of oneself/others) must seamlessly alternate during goal-oriented 
behaviors, social interactions. While prominent approaches like Optimal Control, 
Active Inference converge on the role of forward models, they diverge on the 
underlying computational basis. In this context, revisiting older ideas from 
motor control like the Equilibrium Point Hypothesis and synergy formation, this 
article offers an alternative perspective emphasizing the functional role of a 
'plastic, configurable' internal representation of the body (body-schema) as a 
critical link enabling the seamless continuum between motor control and imagery. 
With the central proposition that both "real and imagined" actions are 
consequences of an internal simulation process achieved though passive 
goal-oriented animation of the body schema, the computational/neural basis of 
muscleless motor synergies (and ensuing simulated actions without movements) is 
explored. The rationale behind this perspective is articulated in the context of 
several interdisciplinary studies in motor neurosciences (for example, 
intracranial depth recordings from the parietal cortex, FMRI studies 
highlighting a shared cortical basis for action 'execution, imagination and 
understanding'), animal cognition (in particular, tool-use and 
neuro-rehabilitation experiments, revealing how coordinated tools are 
incorporated as an extension to the body schema) and pertinent challenges 
towards building cognitive robots that can seamlessly "act, interact, anticipate 
and understand" in unstructured natural living spaces.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.plrev.2018.04.005
PMID: 29903532 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


185. Clin Lung Cancer. 2018 Sep;19(5):401-409.e4. doi:
10.1016/j.cllc.2018.04.023.  Epub 2018 May 7.

Quality-adjusted Outcomes Stratified by Response in Patients With Advanced 
Non-Small-cell Lung Cancer Receiving First-line nab-Paclitaxel/Carboplatin or 
Paclitaxel/Carboplatin.

Hirsh V(1), Wan Y(2), Lin FJ(2), Margunato-Debay S(3), Ong TJ(3), Botteman M(2), 
Langer C(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, McGill University Health Centre, Cedars Cancer 
Centre, Montreal, QC, Canada. Electronic address: vera.hirsh@muhc.mcgill.ca.
(2)Pharmerit North America, Bethesda, MD.
(3)Celgene Corporation, Summit, NJ.
(4)Abramson Cancer Center, Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania, 
Philadelphia, PA.

BACKGROUND: First-line nab-paclitaxel/carboplatin was associated with a 
significantly improved overall response rate (primary endpoint) versus 
paclitaxel/carboplatin in a phase III trial of advanced non-small-cell lung 
cancer (NSCLC). We report the results of an analysis evaluating the correlation 
of response and the time to response with survival and quality-adjusted 
outcomes.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Using a landmark approach, progression-free survival 
(PFS), overall survival (OS), and quality-adjusted time without symptoms or 
toxicity (Q-TWiST) were compared between patients with a confirmed partial or 
complete response at or before 6 weeks (≤ 6-week responders) and those without 
(≤ 6-week nonresponders). The outcomes were also analyzed in two 12-week 
landmark analyses: ≤ 12-week responders versus ≤ 12-week nonresponders and early 
responders (≤ 6 weeks) versus late responders (6-12 weeks) versus ≤ 12-week 
nonresponders.
RESULTS: The median OS and PFS for the ≤ 6-week responders versus ≤ 6-week 
nonresponders were 14.5 versus 10.3 months (P < .001) and 5.5 versus 4.5 months 
(P = .002), respectively. The ≤ 6-week responders gained 2.1 months of mean 
Q-TWiST. The median OS and PFS for the ≤ 12-week responders versus ≤ 12-week 
nonresponders were 16.3 versus 8.4 months and 5.3 versus 2.8 months (both P < 
.001), respectively, and the ≤ 12-week responders gained 3.2 months of mean 
Q-TWiST. The median OS was 13.1, 16.6, and 8.4 months (P < .001), the median PFS 
was 4.1, 6.7, and 2.8 months (P < .001), and the mean Q-TWiST was 10.2, 11.7, 
and 7.8 months for the early responders, late responders, and ≤ 12-week 
nonresponders, respectively. Both early and late responders had significantly 
longer Q-TWiST compared with the ≤ 12-week nonresponders (difference, +2.4 
and +3.9 months, respectively; P < .05).
CONCLUSION: These results underscore response as an important surrogate for 
assessment of long-term treatment outcomes in advanced NSCLC.

Copyright © 2018 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cllc.2018.04.023
PMID: 29903552 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


186. BMJ Open. 2018 Jun 14;8(6):e019716. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2017-019716.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of internet-mediated cognitive behavioural therapy 
for depression in the primary care setting: results based on a controlled trial.

Holst A(1), Björkelund C(1), Metsini A(2), Madsen JH(3), Hange D(1), Petersson 
EL(1)(4), Eriksson MC(1), Kivi M(5), Andersson PÅ(6), Svensson M(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Primary Health Care/Public Health and Community Medicine, 
Institute of Medicine, Sahlgrenska Academy at University of Gothenburg, 
Gothenburg, Sweden.
(2)County Council of Värmland, Karlstad, Sweden.
(3)Dept of Economics and IT, University West, Trollhättan, Sweden.
(4)Region Västra Götaland, Närhälsan Research and Development Primary Health 
Care, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(5)Department of Psychology, University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(6)Department of Economics, School of Business, Economics and Law at University 
of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(7)Department of Health Metrics, Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, 
Gothenburg, Sweden.

OBJECTIVE: To perform a cost-effectiveness analysis of a randomised controlled 
trial of internet-mediated cognitive behavioural therapy (ICBT) compared with 
treatment as usual (TaU) for patients with mild to moderate depression in the 
Swedish primary care setting. In particular, the objective was to assess from a 
healthcare and societal perspective the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
(ICER) of ICBT versus TaU at 12 months follow-up.
DESIGN: A cost-effectiveness analysis alongside a pragmatic effectiveness trial.
SETTING: Sixteen primary care centres (PCCs) in south-west Sweden.
PARTICIPANTS: Ninety patients diagnosed with mild to moderate depression at the 
PCCs.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: ICERs calculated as (CostICBT-CostTaU)/(Health 
outcomeICBT-Health outcomeTaU)=ΔCost/ΔHealth outcomes, the health outcomes being 
changes in the Beck Depression Inventory-II (BDI-II) score and quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs).
RESULTS: The total cost per patient for ICBT was 4044 Swedish kronor (SEK) 
(€426) (healthcare perspective) and SEK47 679 (€5028) (societal perspective). 
The total cost per patient for TaU was SEK4434 (€468) and SEK50 343 (€5308). In 
both groups, the largest cost was associated with productivity loss. The 
differences in cost per patient were not statistically significant. The mean 
reduction in BDI-II score was 13.4 and 13.8 units in the ICBT and TaU groups, 
respectively. The mean QALYs per patient was 0.74 and 0.79 in the ICBT and TaU 
groups, respectively. The differences in BDI-II score reduction and mean QALYs 
were not statistically significant. The uncertainty of the study estimates when 
assessed by bootstrapping indicated that no firm conclusion could be drawn as to 
whether ICBT treatment compared with TaU was the most cost-effective use of 
resources.
CONCLUSIONS: ICBT was regarded to be as cost-effective as TaU as costs, health 
outcomes and cost-effectiveness were similar for ICBT and TaU, both from a 
healthcare and societal perspective.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: ID NR 30511.

© Article author(s) (or their employer(s) unless otherwise stated in the text of 
the article) 2018. All rights reserved. No commercial use is permitted unless 
otherwise expressly granted.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2017-019716
PMCID: PMC6009451
PMID: 29903785 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


187. BMJ Open. 2018 Jun 14;8(6):e021174. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2017-021174.

Should women aged 70-74 be invited to participate in screening mammography? A 
report on two Australian community juries.

Degeling C(1)(2), Barratt A(2)(3), Aranda S(4), Bell R(5), Doust J(6), Houssami 
N(2)(3), Hersch J(2)(3), Sakowsky R(7), Entwistle V(8), Carter SM(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Research for Social Change, University of Wollongong, Wollongong, New South 
Wales, Australia.
(2)Wiser Healthcare, Sydney, Australia.
(3)Sydney School of Public Health, University of Sydney, Sydney, New South 
Wales, Australia.
(4)The Cancer Council Australia, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
(5)Department of Epidemiology and Preventive Medicine, School of Public Health 
and Preventive Medicine, Monash University, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
(6)Centre for Research in Evidence-Based Practice, Faculty of Health Sciences 
and Medicine, Bond University, Gold Coast, Queensland, Australia.
(7)Health Economics Research Unit, University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen, UK.
(8)Health Services Research Unit, University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen, UK.

OBJECTIVE: To elicit informed views from Australian women aged 70-74 regarding 
the acceptability of ceasing to invite women their age to participate in 
government-funded mammography screening (BreastScreen).
DESIGN: Two community juries held in 2017.
SETTING: Greater Sydney, a metropolis of 4.5 million people in New South Wales, 
Australia.
PARTICIPANTS: 34 women aged 70-74 with no personal history of breast cancer, 
recruited by random digit dialling and previously randomly recruited list-based 
samples.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Jury verdict and rationale in response to structured 
questions. We transcribed audio-recorded jury proceedings and identified central 
reasons for the jury's decision.
RESULTS: The women's average age was 71.5 years. Participants were of diverse 
sociocultural backgrounds, with the sample designed to include women of lower 
levels of educational attainment. Both juries concluded by majority verdict 
(16-2 and 10-6) that BreastScreen should continue to send invitations and 
promote screening to their age group. Reasons given for the majority position 
include: (1) sending the invitations shows that society still cares about older 
women, empowers them to access preventive health services and recognises 
increasing and varied life expectancy; (2) screening provides women with 
information that enables choice and (3) if experts cannot agree, the 
conservative approach is to maintain the status quo until the evidence is clear. 
Reasons for the minority position were the potential for harms through 
overdiagnosis and misallocation of scarce health resources.
CONCLUSIONS: Preventive programmes such as mammography screening are likely to 
have significant symbolic value once they are socially embedded. Arguments for 
programme de-implementation emphasising declining benefit because of limited 
life expectancy and the risks of overdiagnosis seem unlikely to resonate with 
healthy older women. In situations where there is no consensus among experts on 
the value of established screening programmes, people may strongly prefer 
receiving information about their health and having the opportunity make their 
own choices.

© Article author(s) (or their employer(s) unless otherwise stated in the text of 
the article) 2018. All rights reserved. No commercial use is permitted unless 
otherwise expressly granted.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2017-021174
PMCID: PMC6009633
PMID: 29903796 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


188. Sci Rep. 2018 Jun 14;8(1):9087. doi: 10.1038/s41598-018-27380-7.

An ex vivo salivary lubrication system to mimic xerostomic conditions and to 
predict the lubricating properties of xerostomia relieving agents.

Vinke J(1), Kaper HJ(1), Vissink A(2), Sharma PK(3).

Author information:
(1)University of Groningen and University Medical Center Groningen, Department 
of Biomedical Engineering, Groningen, The Netherlands.
(2)University of Groningen and University Medical Center Groningen, Department 
of Oral Maxillofacial Surgery, Groningen, The Netherlands.
(3)University of Groningen and University Medical Center Groningen, Department 
of Biomedical Engineering, Groningen, The Netherlands. p.k.sharma@umcg.nl.

Advances in medical research has resulted in successful treatment of many 
life-threatening infectious diseases as well as autoimmune and lifestyle-related 
diseases, increasing life-expectancy of both the developed and developing world. 
As a result of a growing ageing population, the focus has also turned on chronic 
diseases which seriously affect the quality of older patient life. Xerostomia 
(dry mouth) is one such condition, which leads to bad oral health and difficulty 
in consumption of dry foods and speech. Saliva substitutes are used to ease 
symptoms. However, they often don't work properly and objective comparison of 
saliva substitutes to mimic natural salivary functions does not exist. The study 
thus aims to develop an ex vivo friction assay simulating dry mouth conditions 
and facilitating objective comparison of saliva substitutes. A reciprocating 
sliding tongue-enamel system was developed and compared to a PDMS 
(polydimethylsiloxane)-PDMS friction system. The tongue-enamel system, but not 
the PDMS-PDMS model, showed high mucin-containing saliva (unstimulated and 
submandibular/sublingual saliva) to give higher Relief than mucin-poor 
lubricants (water, parotid saliva, Dentaid Xeros) and correlated well (r = 0.97) 
with in vivo mouth feel. The tongue-enamel friction system mimicked dry mouth 
conditions and relief and seems suited to test agents meant to lubricate 
desiccated oral surfaces.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-018-27380-7
PMCID: PMC6002370
PMID: 29904095 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


189. Am J Gastroenterol. 2018 Dec;113(12):1836-1847. doi:
10.1038/s41395-018-0106-8.  Epub 2018 Jun 15.

Contrasting Effectiveness and Cost-Effectiveness of Colorectal Cancer Screening 
Under Commercial Insurance vs. Medicare.

Ladabaum U(1)(1), Mannalithara A(1)(1), Brill JV(1)(1), Levin Z(1), Bundorf 
KM(1)(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Stanford University School of 
Medicine, Stanford, CA, USA. Department of Medicine, Stanford University School 
of Medicine, Stanford, CA, USA. Predictive Health, Paradise Valley, AZ, USA. 
Department of Family, Community and Preventive Medicine, University of Arizona 
College of Medicine - Phoenix, Phoenix, AZ, USA. Department of Health Research 
and Policy, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, CA, USA. National 
Bureau of Economic Research, Cambridge, MA, USA.

Comment in
    Am J Gastroenterol. 2018 Dec;113(12):1754-1756.

OBJECTIVES: Most cost-effectiveness analyses of colorectal cancer (CRC) 
screening assume Medicare payment rates and a lifetime horizon. Our aims were to 
examine the implications of differential payment levels and time horizons for 
commercial insurers vs. Medicare on the cost-effectiveness of CRC screening.
METHODS: We used our validated Markov cohort simulation of CRC screening in the 
average risk US population to examine CRC screening at ages 50-64 under 
commercial insurance, and at ages 65-80 under Medicare, using a health-care 
sector perspective. Model outcomes included discounted quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs) and costs per person, and incremental cost/QALY gained.
RESULTS: Lifetime costs/person were 20-44% higher when assuming commercial 
payment rates rather than Medicare rates for people under 65. Most of the 
substantial clinical benefit of screening at ages 50-64 was realized at ages 
≥65. For commercial payers with a time horizon of ages 50-64, fecal occult blood 
testing (FOBT) and fecal immunochemical testing (FIT) were cost-effective 
(<$61,000/QALY gained), but colonoscopy was costly (>$185,000/QALY gained). 
Medicare experienced substantial clinical benefits and cost-savings from 
screening done at ages <65, even if screening was not continued. Among those 
previously screened, continuing FOBT and FIT under Medicare was cost-saving and 
continuing colonoscopy was highly cost-effective (<$30,000/QALY gained), and 
initiating any screening in those previously unscreened was highly effective and 
cost-saving.
CONCLUSIONS: Modeling suggests that CRC screening is highly cost-effective over 
a lifetime even when considering higher payment rates by commercial payers vs. 
Medicare. Screening may appear relatively costly for commercial payers if only a 
time horizon of ages 50-64 is considered, but it is predicted to yield 
substantial clinical and economic benefits that accrue primarily at ages ≥65 
under Medicare.

DOI: 10.1038/s41395-018-0106-8
PMCID: PMC6768591
PMID: 29904156 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


190. Bull World Health Organ. 2018 Jun 1;96(6):393-401. doi:
10.2471/BLT.17.191817.  Epub 2018 Apr 23.

Health-system-adapted data envelopment analysis for decision-making in universal 
health coverage.

Shrime MG(1), Mukhopadhyay S(2), Alkire BC(1).

Author information:
(1)Program in Global Surgery and Social Change, Harvard Medical School, 641 
Huntington Ave #411, Boston, Massachusetts, 02115, United States of America 
(USA).
(2)Department of Surgery, University of Connecticut, Farmington, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To develop and test a method that allows an objective assessment of 
the value of any health policy in multiple domains.
METHODS: We developed a method to assist decision-makers with constrained 
resources and insufficient knowledge about a society's preferences to choose 
between policies with unequal, and at times opposing, effects on multiple 
outcomes. Our method extends standard data envelopment analysis to address the 
realities of health policy, such as multiple and adverse outcomes and a lack of 
information about the population's preferences over those outcomes. We made four 
modifications to the standard analysis: (i) treating the policy itself as the 
object of analysis, (ii) allowing the method to produce a rank-ordering of 
policies; (iii) allowing any outcome to serve as both an output and input; and 
(iv) allowing variable return to scale. We tested the method against three 
previously published analyses of health policies in low-income settings.
RESULTS: When applied to previous analyses, our new method performed better than 
traditional cost-effectiveness analysis and standard data envelopment analysis. 
The adapted analysis could identify the most efficient policy interventions from 
among any set of evaluated policies and was able to provide a rank ordering of 
all interventions.
CONCLUSION: Health-system-adapted data envelopment analysis allows any 
quantifiable attribute or determinant of health to be included in a calculation. 
It is easy to perform and, in the absence of evidence about a society's 
preferences among multiple policy outcomes, can provide a comprehensive method 
for health-policy decision-making in the era of sustainable development.

Publisher: OBJECTIF: Développer et tester une méthode permettant d'évaluer 
objectivement la valeur de toute politique sanitaire dans de multiples domaines.
MÉTHODES: Nous avons développé une méthode pour aider les décideurs qui 
possèdent des ressources limitées et des connaissances insuffisantes concernant 
les préférences d'une société à choisir entre des politiques ayant des effets 
inégaux, et parfois opposés, sur de multiples résultats. Notre méthode élargit 
l'analyse standard de l'enveloppement de données pour tenir compte des réalités 
d'une politique sanitaire, et notamment de résultats multiples et négatifs et 
d'un manque d'informations concernant les préférences d'une population à l'égard 
de ces résultats. Nous avons apporté quatre modifications à l'analyse standard: 
(i) nous avons pris la politique elle-même comme objet d'analyse; (ii) nous 
avons fait en sorte que la méthode permette de classer les politiques; 
(iii) nous avons veillé à ce que chaque résultat serve à la fois d'entrée et de 
sortie; et (iv) nous avons prévu un rendement d'échelle variable. Nous avons 
testé la méthode par rapport à trois analyses précédemment publiées de 
politiques sanitaires dans des pays à faibles revenus.
RÉSULTATS: Appliquée aux précédentes analyses, notre nouvelle méthode a donné de 
meilleurs résultats qu'une traditionnelle analyse coût-efficacité et qu'une 
analyse standard de l'enveloppement de données. Cette analyse adaptée a permis 
de repérer les interventions les plus efficaces parmi un ensemble de politiques 
évaluées et d'établir un classement de toutes les interventions.
CONCLUSION: L'analyse de l'enveloppement de données adaptée au système de santé 
permet d'inclure dans un calcul toute caractéristique ou tout déterminant 
quantifiable de la santé. Cette analyse est facile à réaliser et, en l'absence 
de données concernant les préférences d'une société parmi plusieurs résultats de 
politique, elle fournit une méthode complète pour la prise de décision en 
matière de politique sanitaire à l'ère du développement durable.

Publisher: OBJETIVO: Desarrollar y probar un método que permita una evaluación 
objetiva del valor de cualquier política de salud en múltiples dominios.
MÉTODOS: Se desarrolló un método para ayudar a los responsables de la toma de 
decisiones con recursos limitados y conocimientos insuficientes sobre las 
preferencias de una sociedad para elegir entre políticas de efectos desiguales, 
y en ocasiones opuestos, en resultados múltiples. El método amplía el análisis 
envolvente de datos estándar para abordar las realidades de la política de 
salud, como los resultados múltiples y adversos y la falta de información sobre 
las preferencias de la población con respecto a dichos resultados. Se realizaron 
cuatro modificaciones al análisis estándar: (i) tratar la política en sí misma 
como el objeto de análisis; (ii) permitir que el método produzca un orden 
jerárquico de las políticas; (iii) permitir que cualquier resultado sirva como 
entrada y salida; y (iv) permitir el rendimiento variable a escala. Se probó el 
método en comparación con tres análisis publicados anteriormente de políticas de 
salud en entornos de bajos ingresos.
RESULTADOS: Cuando se aplicó a análisis previos, el nuevo método funcionó mejor 
que el análisis tradicional de coste y efectividad y que el análisis estándar 
envolvente de datos. El análisis adaptado identificó las intervenciones de 
políticas más eficaces de entre un conjunto de políticas evaluadas y proporcionó 
un orden jerárquico de todas las intervenciones.
CONCLUSIÓN: El análisis envolvente de datos adaptado al sistema de salud permite 
incluir cualquier atributo o determinante de salud cuantificable en un cálculo. 
Es fácil de realizar y, a falta de evidencia sobre las preferencias de una 
sociedad entre múltiples resultados de una política, proporciona un método 
integral para la toma de decisiones sobre políticas de salud en la era del 
desarrollo sostenible.

Publisher: الغرض: تطوير واختبار طريقة تتيح إجراء تقييم موضوعي لقيمة أي سياسة 
صحية في العديد من المجالات.
الطريقة: قمنا بتطوير أسلوب لمساعدة صناع القرار المعتمدين على موارد محدودة ومعرفة 
غير كافية حول أفضليات المجتمع للاختيار ما بين السياسات ذات الآثار غير المتكافئة 
– والتي أحيانًا ما تكون متعارضة – على المحصلات المتعددة. ويعمل الأسلوب الذي 
نقدمه على مد نطاق التحليل القياسي لتغطية البيانات بحيث يتعامل مع وقائع السياسة 
الصحية، مثل تعدد المحصلات الناتجة ونشوء محصلات سلبية، ونقل المعلومات حول أفضليات 
الشرائح السكانية فيما يتعلق بتلك المحصلات. وقد أجرينا أربعة تعديلات على التحليل 
القياسي تتمثل فيما يلي: علاج السياسة ذاتها بصفتها هدف للتحليل، و(ب) السماح 
للأسلوب بإنتاج تصنيف تراتبي للسياسات، و(جـ) السماح باعتبار محصلة بمثابة ناتج 
ومعطيات في نفس الوقت، و(د) السماح باحتساب عوائد متغيرة الحجم. وقد اختبرنا 
الأسلوب في ضوء ثلاثة تحليلات سبق نشرها في الماضي للسياسات الصحية في البيئات التي 
تسودها مستويات الدخل المنخفضة.
النتائج: عند تطبيق الأسلوب المقترح من جانبنا على التحليلات السابقة، فقد حقق هذا 
الأداء الأسلوب الجديد أداءً أفضل من التحليل التقليدي لفعالية التكلفة والتحليل 
القياسي لتغطية البيانات. وأمكن للتحليل المعدّل أن يحدد التدخلات الأكثر فعالية في 
السياسة من بين أي مجموعة من السياسات التي خضعت للتقييم، كما أمكنه تقديم تصنيف 
تراتبي لجميع التدخلات.
الاستنتاج: يتيح تحليل تغطية البيانات المعدَّل حسب النظم الصحية تضمين أي خاصية أو 
محدِّد للصحة قابل للقياس الكمّي في عملية حسابية. ومن السهل إجراء هذا التحليل، 
كما يمكنه في غياب الأدلة حول الأفضليات السائدة في أحد المجتمعات أن يقدم أسلوبًا 
شاملاً لعملية اتخاذ القرار بشأن السياسات الصحية في عصر التنمية المستدامة.

Publisher: 目的: 开发并测试一种可客观评估多领域任意卫生政策价值的方法。.
方法: 
我们开发了一种方法，在资源有限且对社会偏好缺乏足够了解的情况下，协助决策者在对多个结果有不平等（时而相反）效果的政策间做出选择。我们的方法拓展了标准的数据包络分析以解决卫生政策的现实问题，例如产生多种相反结果、缺乏针对这些结果的群体偏好信息。我们对标准分析作了 4 次修改：(i) 将政策本身视为分析对象；(ii) 可采用该方法为政策排序；(iii) 任何结果既可作为输出信息,又可作为输入信息；和 (iv) 可测量浮动回报。我们采用之前发布的三种低收入国家卫生政策分析来测试该方法。.
结果: 
我们的新方法用于先前分析时，比传统成本效益分析和标准数据包络分析的效果更好。调整后的分析可从任何一组已评估的政策中确定最有效的政策干预措施，并能将所有干预措施排序。.
结论: 
适用于卫生系统的数据包络分析使任何卫生的度量类属性或决定因素均可纳入计算。该分析易于进行，在可持续发展时代，在缺乏社会对多政策结果偏好证据的条件下，它能为卫生政策决策制定提供一种综合方法。.

Publisher: ЦЕЛЬ: Разработать и протестировать метод, который позволил бы 
объективно оценивать значение любой политики в различных сферах деятельности в 
области здравоохранения.
МЕТОДЫ: Авторы разработали метод, содействующий принятию решений при выборе 
между политиками с неравными и порой противоположными последствиями 
уполномоченными лицами в условиях ограниченных ресурсов и недостаточных знаний о 
предпочтениях общества. Этот метод позволяет расширить применение стандартного 
анализа охвата данных для учета реалий политики здравоохранения, таких как 
многочисленные и неблагоприятные последствия, а также отсутствие информации об 
отношении населения к этим последствиям. Авторы внесли четыре изменения в 
стандартный анализ: (i) рассмотрение самой политики как объекта анализа; 
(ii) включение в метод возможности проведения ранжирования политики; 
(iii) включение возможности для любого последствия служить в качестве как 
исходных данных, так и результатов; (iv) включение возможности переменного 
эффекта масштабирования. Авторы протестировали этот метод на основе трех ранее 
опубликованных анализов политики здравоохранения в условиях низкого уровня 
дохода.
РЕЗУЛЬТАТЫ: При применении на основе предыдущего анализа новый метод 
продемонстрировал лучшие результаты, чем традиционный анализ экономической 
эффективности и стандартный анализ охвата данных. Адаптированный анализ способен 
определить наиболее эффективные политические меры среди любого набора 
оцениваемых стратегий и может обеспечить ранжирование всех мер.
ВЫВОД: Анализ охвата данных, адаптированный к системе здравоохранения, позволяет 
включать в расчет любой количественный атрибут или детерминант здоровья. Такой 
анализ прост в осуществлении и при отсутствии информации об отношении общества к 
нескольким последствиям политики может обеспечить комплексный метод принятия 
решений в области здравоохранения в эпоху устойчивого развития.

DOI: 10.2471/BLT.17.191817
PMCID: PMC5996217
PMID: 29904222 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


191. Int J Biol Sci. 2018 Apr 25;14(6):599-607. doi: 10.7150/ijbs.23419.
eCollection  2018.

Evaluation of the bioactivity of a mastoparan peptide from wasp venom and of its 
analogues designed through targeted engineering.

Chen X(1), Zhang L(1), Wu Y(1), Wang L(1), Ma C(1), Xi X(1), Bininda-Emonds 
ORP(2), Shaw C(1), Chen T(1), Zhou M(1).

Author information:
(1)Natural Drug Discovery Group, School of Pharmacy, Queen's University Belfast, 
Belfast, Northern Ireland, UK.
(2)AG Systematik und Evolutionsbiologie, IBU-Faculty V, Carl von Ossietzky 
University Oldenburg, Oldenburg, Germany.

Mastoparan is a typical cationic and amphipathic tetradecapeptide found in wasp 
venom and exhibits potent biological activities. Yet, compared with other 
insect-derived peptides, such as melittin from the bee venom, this family have 
been underrated. Herein, we evaluated the biological activities of mastoparan-C 
(MP-C), which was identified from the venom of the European Hornet (Vespa 
crabro), and rationally designed two analogues (a skeleton-based cyclization by 
two cysteine residues and an N-terminal extension via tat-linked) for enhancing 
the stability of the biological activity and membrane permeability, 
respectively. Three peptides possessed broadly efficacious inhibiting capacities 
towards common pathogens, resistant strains, as well as microbial biofilm. 
Although, cyclized MP-C showed longer half-life time than the parent peptide, 
the lower potency of antimicrobial activity and higher degree of haemolysis were 
observed. The tat-linked MP-C exhibited more potent anticancer activity than the 
parent peptide, but it also loses the specificity. The study revealed that MP-C 
is good candidate for developing antimicrobial agents and the targeted-design 
could improve the stability and transmembrane delivery, but more investigation 
would be needed to adjust the side effects brought from the design.

DOI: 10.7150/ijbs.23419
PMCID: PMC6001651
PMID: 29904274 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interest exists.


192. Adv Radiat Oncol. 2017 Dec 13;3(2):190-196. doi: 10.1016/j.adro.2017.12.001.
 eCollection 2018 Apr-Jun.

Superior metastasis-free survival for patients with high-risk prostate cancer 
treated with definitive radiation therapy compared to radical prostatectomy: A 
propensity score-matched analysis.

Markovina S(1), Meeks MW(1), Badiyan S(2), Vetter J(3), Gay HA(1), Paradis A(3), 
Michalski J(1), Sandhu G(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Washington University, St. Louis, Missouri.
(2)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Maryland School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, Maryland.
(3)Division of Urologic Surgery, Washington University, St. Louis, Missouri.

PURPOSE: For high-risk prostate cancer (HR-PCa) in men with a life expectancy of 
at least 10 years, the National Comprehensive Cancer Network recommends 
radiation therapy (RT) plus androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) with category 1 
evidence or radical prostatectomy (RP) as an acceptable initial therapy. 
Randomized evidence regarding which therapy is optimal for disease control is 
lacking for men with HR-PCa. We performed a propensity-score-matched comparison 
of outcomes for men with localized HR-PCa treated with primary RT or RP.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: The medical records of patients with localized HR-PCa who 
were treated at our institution between 2002 and 2011 were reviewed. Patient and 
disease characteristics, treatment details, and outcomes were collected. A 
combination of nearest-neighbor propensity score matching on age, Adult 
Comorbidity Evaluation-27 comorbidity index, prostate-specific antigen, biopsy 
Gleason scores, and clinical T-stage as well as exact matching on 
prostate-specific antigen, biopsy Gleason scores, and clinical T-stage was 
performed. Outcomes were measured from diagnosis. Multivariate Cox proportional 
hazards regression was used to compare metastasis-free and overall survival.
RESULTS: A total of 246 patients were identified with 62 
propensity-score-matched pairs. ADT was administered to 6.5% and 80.6% of 
patients receiving RP and RT, respectively. Five-year rates of metastasis for RP 
and RT were 33% and 8.9%, respectively (P = .003). Overall survival was not 
different. Delay of salvage therapy was longer for patients undergoing primary 
RT (P < .001). Findings were similar when only those patients who did not 
receive ADT were compared.
CONCLUSIONS: At our institution, treatment with primary RT resulted in superior 
metastasis-free survival over RP. This was not accompanied by an improvement in 
OS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.adro.2017.12.001
PMCID: PMC6000029
PMID: 29904744


193. J Palliat Med. 2018 Aug;21(8):1107-1113. doi: 10.1089/jpm.2017.0686. Epub
2018  Jun 15.

Ambulatory Advanced Cancer Patients' and Oncologists' Estimates of Life 
Expectancy Are Associated with Patient Psychological Characteristics But Not 
Chemotherapy Use.

Cripe LD(1), Rand KL(2), Perkins SM(1), Tong Y(1), Schmidt KK(1), Hedrick DG(1), 
Rawl SM(3).

Author information:
(1)1 Department of Medicine, Indiana University School of Medicine , 
Indianapolis, Indiana.
(2)2 Department of Psychology, Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis 
, Indianapolis, Indiana.
(3)3 Indiana University School of Nursing , Indianapolis, Indiana.

BACKGROUND: Patients with advanced cancer often face distressing decisions about 
chemotherapy. There are conflicting data on the relationships among perceived 
prognosis, psychological characteristics, and chemotherapy use, which impair the 
refinement of decision support interventions.
OBJECTIVE: Clarify the relationships among patient and oncologist estimates of 
life expectancy for 6 and 12 months, chemotherapy use, and patient psychological 
characteristics.
DESIGN: Secondary analysis of data from two cross-sectional studies.
SETTING/SUBJECTS: One hundred sixty-six patients with advanced stage cancer 
recruited from ambulatory cancer clinics.
MEASUREMENTS: All data were obtained at study enrollment. Patients completed the 
Adult Hope Scale, Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale, and Life Orientation 
Test-Revised. Patients and their oncologists provided estimates of surviving 
beyond 6 and 12 months. Chemotherapy use was determined by chart review.
RESULTS: There were no significant associations between life-expectancy 
estimates and chemotherapy use nor patient anxiety, depression, hope, or 
optimism and chemotherapy use. Patients' life expectancy estimates for 12 months 
and oncologists' for 6 months were associated with higher patient anxiety and 
depression. Finally, both oncologist and patient estimates of life expectancy 
for 6 and 12 months were associated with increased levels of trait hope.
CONCLUSION: Advanced cancer patients who provide less optimistic estimates of 
life expectancy have increased anxiety and depression, but do not use 
chemotherapy more often. Increased patient trait hope is associated with more 
favorable oncologist estimates. These findings highlight the need for 
interventions to support both patients and oncologists as they clarify 
prognostic expectations and patients cope with the psychological distress of a 
limited life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1089/jpm.2017.0686
PMID: 29905496 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


194. Ann Oncol. 2018 Aug 1;29(8):1710-1717. doi: 10.1093/annonc/mdy195.

Pleural mesothelioma: is the surgeon still there?

Opitz I(1), Weder W(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic Surgery, University Hospital Zurich, Zurich, 
Switzerland. Electronic address: Isabelle.schmitt-opitz@usz.ch.
(2)Department of Thoracic Surgery, University Hospital Zurich, Zurich, 
Switzerland.

Malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM) is a rare malignancy with some unique 
characteristics. Tumor biology is aggressive and prognosis is poor. Despite more 
knowledge on histology, tumor biology and staging, there is still a relevant 
discrepancy between clinical and pathologic staging resulting in difficult 
prediction of prognosis and treatment outcome, making treatment allocation more 
challenging than in most other malignancies. After years of nihilism in the late 
80s, a period of activism started evaluating different treatment protocols 
combined with research driven mainly by academic centers; at the time, selection 
was based on histology and stage only. This period was important to gain 
knowledge about the disease. However, the interpretation of data was difficult 
since selection criteria and definitions varied substantially. Not surprisingly, 
until now there is no common agreement on best treatment even among specialists. 
Hence, a review of our current concepts is indicated and personalized treatment 
should become applicable in the future. Surgery was and still is an issue of 
debate. In principle, surgery is an effective approach as it allows macroscopic 
complete elimination of a tumor, which is relatively resistant to medical 
treatment. It helps to set the clock back and other therapies that have also 
just a limited effect can be applied sequentially before or after surgery. 
Furthermore, to date best long-term outcome is reported from surgical series in 
combination with other modalities. However, part of the community considers 
surgery associated with too high morbidity and mortality when balanced to the 
limited life expectancy. This criticism is understandable, since poor results 
after surgery are reported. The present article will review the indication for 
surgery and discuss the different procedures available for macroscopic complete 
resection-such as lung-preserving (extended) pleurectomy/decortication as well 
as extrapleural pneumonectomy to illustrate that 'The surgeon is still there!'

DOI: 10.1093/annonc/mdy195
PMID: 29905765 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


195. J Urol. 2018 Dec;200(6):1215-1220. doi: 10.1016/j.juro.2018.06.016. Epub
2018  Jun 12.

Incorporating Biomarkers into the Primary Prostate Biopsy Setting: A 
Cost-Effectiveness Analysis.

Sathianathen NJ(1), Kuntz KM(2), Alarid-Escudero F(2), Lawrentschuk NL(3), 
Bolton DM(4), Murphy DG(5), Weight CJ(6), Konety BR(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota; 
Department of Surgery, Urology Unit and Olivia Newton-John Cancer Research 
Institute Austin Health, University of Melbourne, Melbourne, Victoria, 
Australia. Electronic address: nsathian@umn.edu.
(2)Division of Health Policy and Management, School of Public Health, University 
of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota.
(3)Department of Surgery, Urology Unit and Olivia Newton-John Cancer Research 
Institute Austin Health, University of Melbourne, Melbourne, Victoria, 
Australia; Department of Surgical Oncology, Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre, 
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
(4)Department of Surgery, Urology Unit and Olivia Newton-John Cancer Research 
Institute Austin Health, University of Melbourne, Melbourne, Victoria, 
Australia.
(5)Department of Surgical Oncology, Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre, Melbourne, 
Victoria, Australia.
(6)Department of Urology, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota.

Comment in
    J Urol. 2018 Dec;200(6):1220.

PURPOSE: We performed a cost-effectiveness analysis using the PHI (Prostate 
Health Index), 4Kscore®, SelectMDx™ and the EPI (ExoDx™ Prostate [IntelliScore]) 
in men with elevated prostate specific antigen to determine the need for biopsy.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We developed a decision analytical model in men with 
elevated prostate specific antigen (3 ng/ml or greater) in which 1 biomarker 
test was used to determine which hypothetical individuals required biopsy. In 
the current standard of care strategy all individuals underwent biopsy. Model 
parameters were derived from a comprehensive review of the literature. Costs 
were calculated from a health sector perspective and converted into 2017 United 
States dollars.
RESULTS: The cost and QALYs (quality adjusted life-years) of the current 
standard of care, which was transrectal ultrasound guided biopsy, was $3,863 and 
18.085, respectively. Applying any of the 3 biomarkers improved quality adjusted 
survival compared to the current standard of care. The cost of SelectMDx, the 
PHI and the EPI was lower than performing prostate biopsy in all patients. 
However, the PHI was more costly and less effective than the SelectMDx strategy. 
The EPI provided the highest QALY with an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
of $58,404 per QALY. The use of biomarkers could reduce the number of 
unnecessary biopsies by 24% to 34% compared to the current standard of care.
CONCLUSIONS: Applying biomarkers in men with elevated prostate specific antigen 
to determine the need for biopsy improved quality adjusted survival by 
decreasing the number of biopsies performed and the treatment of indolent 
disease. Using SelectMDx or the EPI following elevated prostate specific antigen 
but before proceeding to biopsy is a cost-effective strategy in this setting.

Copyright © 2018 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc. 
Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.juro.2018.06.016
PMID: 29906434 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


196. J Health Econ. 2018 Jul;60:30-38. doi: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2018.06.001. Epub
2018  Jun 7.

End-of-life healthcare expenditure: Testing economic explanations using a 
discrete choice experiment.

Fischer B(1), Telser H(2), Zweifel P(3).

Author information:
(1)Polynomics AG, Olten, Switzerland; University of Zurich, Switzerland. 
Electronic address: barbara.fischer@polynomics.ch.
(2)Polynomics AG, Olten, Switzerland; University of Lucerne, Switzerland. 
Electronic address: harry.telser@polynomics.ch.
(3)University of Zurich, Switzerland. Electronic address: peter.zweifel@uzh.ch.

Healthcare expenditure (HCE) spent during an individual's last year of life 
accounts for a high share of lifetime HCE. This finding is puzzling because an 
investment in health is unlikely to have a sufficiently long payback period. 
However, Becker et al. (2007) and Philipson et al. (2010) have advanced a theory 
designed to explain high willingness to pay (WTP) for an extension of life close 
to its end. Their testable implications are complemented by the concept of 'pain 
of risk bearing' introduced by Eeckhoudt and Schlesinger (2006). They are tested 
using a discrete choice experiment performed in 2014, involving 1,529 Swiss 
adults. An individual setting where the price attribute is substantial 
out-of-pocket payment for a novel drug for treatment of terminal cancer is 
distinguished from a societal one, where it is an increase in contributions to 
social health insurance. Most of the economic predictions receive empirical 
support.

Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2018.06.001
PMID: 29906764 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


197. Maturitas. 2018 Aug;114:34-40. doi: 10.1016/j.maturitas.2018.05.008. Epub
2018  May 30.

E-health for active ageing; A systematic review.

Robbins TD(1), Lim Choi Keung SN(2), Arvanitis TN(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Digital Healthcare, WMG, University of Warwick, Coventry, CV4 
7AL, United Kingdom; University Hospitals Coventry & Warwickshire NHS Trust, 
Clifford Bridge Road, Coventry, CV2 2DX, United Kingdom.
(2)Institute of Digital Healthcare, WMG, University of Warwick, Coventry, CV4 
7AL, United Kingdom.
(3)Institute of Digital Healthcare, WMG, University of Warwick, Coventry, CV4 
7AL, United Kingdom. Electronic address: T.Arvanitis@warwick.ac.uk.

Enabling successful active ageing is an international priority to meet the 
challenges of increasing life expectancy. Digital strategies, such as 
telemedicine and e-health, offer the potential to deliver active ageing in a 
cost-effective manner at scale. This article aims to establish the extent to 
which the research literature considers e-health-based and telemedicine-based 
active ageing interventions. A systematic review was conducted according to 
PRISMA standards. Independently, two authors searched the Cochrane, EMBASE & 
CINAHL databases, with subsequent independent extraction and semi-quantitative 
analysis. We report a considerable breadth in digital active ageing research, 
which is truly international in its scope. There is a diverse range of both 
interventions and technologies, including a reassuring focus on community-based 
interventions. Whilst there are a number of quantitative studies, sample sizes 
are small, with a limited amount of statistical testing of the results. There is 
significant variation in the outcome measures reported and little consensus as 
to the most effective intervention strategies. Overall, whilst there is 
considerable breadth to the research published in the literature, there is a 
clear restriction in the depth of this research. There is little overall 
consensus. This lack of depth and consensus may be due to the need to recognize 
the important role of technical research elements alongside more traditional 
research methodologies, such as randomized controlled trials. Enabling both 
technical and clinical research methods to be recognized, in tandem, has 
enormous potential to support individuals, communities, clinicians and policy 
makers to make more informed decisions in relation to active ageing.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.maturitas.2018.05.008
PMID: 29907244 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


198. Iran J Allergy Asthma Immunol. 2018 Jun;17(3):240-249.

Construction of a Recombinant Phage-vaccine Capable of Reducing the Growth Rate 
of an Established LL2 Tumor Model.

Asadi-Ghalehni M(1), Rasaee MJ(2), Namvar Asl N(3), Khosravani M(4), Rajabibazl 
M(5), Khalili S(6), Modjtahedi H(7), Sadroddiny E(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Biotechnology, School of Advanced Technologies in 
Medicine, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Department of Medical Biotechnology, Faculty of Medical Sciences, Tarbiat 
Modares University, Tehran, Iran.
(3)Laboratory of Animal Sciences, Pasteur Institute of Iran, Tehran, Iran.
(4)Department of Nanomedicine, School of Advanced Technologies in Medicine, 
Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(5)Department of Clinical Biochemistry, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(6)Department of Medical Biotechnology, Faculty of Medical Sciences, Tarbiat 
Modares University, Tehran, Iran AND Department of Biology Sciences, Shahid 
Rajaee Teacher Training University, Tehran, Iran.
(7)Department of Life Sciences, Faculty of Science, Engineering and Computing, 
Kingston University, London, England.

Over expression of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) in many human 
epithelial tumors has been correlated with disease progression and poor 
prognosis. EGFR-inhibiting immunotherapy has already been introduced in cancer 
therapy. Peptide displaying phage particles in eukaryotic hosts can behave as 
antigen carriers, able to activate the innate immune system and to elicit 
adaptive immunity. Herein, the M13-pAK8-VIII phagemid plasmid was engineered to 
contain the sequences for an EGFR mimotope along with the L2 extracellular 
domain of EGFR (EM-L2) which would produce the final peptide-phage vaccine. The 
prophylactic and therapeutic effects of this novel vaccine were evaluated on the 
