
Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jconrel.2018.07.023
PMID: 30016735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


506. Biol Sex Differ. 2018 Jul 17;9(1):33. doi: 10.1186/s13293-018-0181-y.

Sex gap in aging and longevity: can sex chromosomes play a role?

Marais GAB(1), Gaillard JM(2), Vieira C(2), Plotton I(3), Sanlaville D(4), 
Gueyffier F(2), Lemaitre JF(2).

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire "Biométrie et Biologie Evolutive"- UMR 5558, CNRS / Université 
Lyon 1, Villeurbanne, France. gabriel.marais@univ-lyon1.fr.
(2)Laboratoire "Biométrie et Biologie Evolutive"- UMR 5558, CNRS / Université 
Lyon 1, Villeurbanne, France.
(3)Service d'Endocrinologie Moléculaire et Maladies Rares, Hospices Civils de 
Lyon, Lyon, France.
(4)Service de Génétique, Hospices Civils de Lyon, CRNL, GENDEV team, INSERM 
U1028, CNRS UMR5292, Université Lyon 1, Lyon, France.

It is well known that women live longer than men. This gap is observed in most 
human populations and can even reach 10-15 years. In addition, most of the known 
super centenarians (i.e., humans who lived for > 110 years) are women. The 
differences in life expectancy between men and women are often attributed to 
cultural differences in common thinking. However, sex hormones seem to influence 
differences in the prevalence of diseases, in the magnitude of aging, and in the 
longevity between men and women. Moreover, far from being human specific, the 
sex gap in longevity is extremely common in non-human animals, especially in 
mammals. Biological factors clearly contribute to such a sex gap in aging and 
longevity. Different hypotheses have been proposed to explain why males and 
females age and die differently. The cost of sexual selection and sexual 
dimorphism has long been considered the best explanation for the observed sex 
gap in aging/longevity. However, the way mitochondria are transmitted (i.e., 
through females in most species) could have an effect, called the mother's 
curse. Recent data suggest that sex chromosomes may also contribute to the sex 
gap in aging/longevity through several potential mechanisms, including the 
unguarded X/Z, the toxic Y/W and the loss of Y/W. We discuss future research 
directions to test these ideas.

DOI: 10.1186/s13293-018-0181-y
PMCID: PMC6050741
PMID: 30016998 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: Not 
applicable. COMPETING INTERESTS: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests. PUBLISHER’S NOTE: Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to 
jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.


507. Public Health Nutr. 2018 Oct;21(15):2893-2906. doi:
10.1017/S1368980018001660.  Epub 2018 Jul 18.

Reducing micronutrient deficiencies in Pakistani children: are subsidies on 
fortified complementary foods cost-effective?

Wieser S(1), Brunner B(1), Tzogiou C(1), Plessow R(1), Zimmermann MB(2), 
Farebrother J(2), Soofi S(3), Bhatti Z(3), Ahmed I(3), Bhutta ZA(3).

Author information:
(1)1Winterthur Institute of Health Economics,Zurich University of Applied 
Sciences,Winterthur,Switzerland.
(2)2Institute of Food,Nutrition and Health,Swiss Federal Institute of Technology 
Zurich,Zurich,Switzerland.
(3)3Department of Paediatrics and Child Health,The Aga Khan 
University,74800Karachi,Pakistan.

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the cost-effectiveness of price subsidies on fortified 
packaged complementary foods (FPCF) in reducing iodine deficiency, 
iron-deficiency anaemia and vitamin A deficiency in Pakistani children.
DESIGN: The study proceeded in three steps: (i) we determined the current 
lifetime costs of the three micronutrient deficiencies with a health economic 
model; (ii) we assessed the price sensitivity of demand for FPCF with a market 
survey in two Pakistani districts; (iii) we combined the findings of the first 
two steps with the results of a systematic review on the effectiveness of FPCF 
in reducing micronutrient deficiencies. The cost-effectiveness was estimated by 
comparing the net social cost of price subsidies with the disability-adjusted 
life years (DALY) averted.
SETTING: Districts of Faisalabad and Hyderabad in Pakistan.
SUBJECTS: Households with 6-23-month-old children stratified by socio-economic 
strata.
RESULTS: The lifetime social costs of iodine deficiency, iron-deficiency anaemia 
and vitamin A deficiency in 6-23-month-old children amounted to production 
losses of $US 209 million and 175 000 DALY. Poor households incurred the highest 
costs, yet even wealthier households suffered substantial losses. Wealthier 
households were more likely to buy FPCF. The net cost per DALY of the 
interventions ranged from a return per DALY averted of $US 783 to $US 65. 
Interventions targeted at poorer households were most cost-effective.
CONCLUSIONS: Price subsidies on FPCF might be a cost-effective way to reduce the 
societal costs of micronutrient deficiencies in 6-23-month-old children in 
Pakistan. Interventions targeting poorer households are especially 
cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1017/S1368980018001660
PMCID: PMC6149007
PMID: 30017015 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


508. Vaccine. 2018 Aug 16;36(34):5160-5165. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2018.07.018.
Epub  2018 Jul 14.

Cost-effectiveness of sex-neutral HPV-vaccination in Sweden, accounting for 
herd-immunity and sexual behaviour.

Wolff E(1), Elfström KM(2), Haugen Cange H(3), Larsson S(4), Englund H(5), 
Sparén P(6), Roth A(7).

Author information:
(1)Public Health Agency of Sweden, Nobels väg 18, 171 82 Solna, Sweden; 
Gothenburg University, Institute of Medicine, Medicinaregatan 3, 405 30 
Gothenburg, Sweden. Electronic address: ellen.wolff@folkhalsomyndigheten.se.
(2)Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm Nobels väg 6, 171 77 Stockholm, Sweden; 
Regional Cancer Centre of Stockholm-Gotland, Västgötagatan 2, Sweden.
(3)Institute of Clinical Sciences, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Dept. of 
Obstetrics and Gynecology, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Östra, SE 416 85 
Gothenburg, Sweden.
(4)Public Health Agency of Sweden, Nobels väg 18, 171 82 Solna, Sweden; 
Gothenburg University, Institute of Medicine, Medicinaregatan 3, 405 30 
Gothenburg, Sweden.
(5)Public Health Agency of Sweden, Nobels väg 18, 171 82 Solna, Sweden.
(6)Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm Nobels väg 6, 171 77 Stockholm, Sweden.
(7)Public Health Agency of Sweden, Nobels väg 18, 171 82 Solna, Sweden; 
Institution for Translational Medicine, Lund University, J Waldenströms g 35, 
CRC, hus 92, plan 11, Malmö, Sweden.

INTRODUCTION: The aim was to assess cost-effectiveness of expanding the Swedish 
HPV-vaccination program to include preadolescent boys, by comparing 
health-effects and costs of HPV-related disease, with a sex-neutral vaccination 
program versus only vaccinating girls.
METHODS: We used a dynamic compartmental model to simulate the burden of 
HPV16/18-related disease in Sweden, accounting for indirect effects of 
vaccination through herd-immunity. The model accounted for sexual behaviour, 
such as age preferences and men who have sex with men. The main outcome was 
number of individuals with HPV-related cancers (cervical, genital, anal and 
oropharyngeal cancer) and cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN). Costs 
included in the analysis were those incurred when treating HPV-related cancer 
and CIN, production losses during sick-leave, and acquisition and administration 
of vaccine. Health effects were measured as quality-adjusted life years (QALY). 
The time horizon was set to 100 years, and both effects and costs were 
discounted by 3% annually. Health effects and costs were accumulated over the 
time horizon and used to create an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio.
RESULTS: A sex-neutral vaccination program would reduce HPV-related cancer and 
CIN, both due to direct effects among vaccinated as well as through 
herd-immunity, further decreasing HPV-related cancer burden annually by around 
60 cases among men and women respectively in steady-state. The cost per gained 
QALY was estimated to 40,000 euro. Applying the procurement price of 2017, 
sex-neutral vaccination was dominant.
CONCLUSION: Introducing a sex-neutral HPV-vaccination program would be good 
value for money also in Sweden where there this 80% coverage in the current 
HPV-vaccination program for preadolescent girls. The cost-effectiveness of a 
sex-neutral program is highly dependent on the price of the vaccine, the lower 
the price the more favourable it is to also vaccinate boys.

Copyright © 2018 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2018.07.018
PMID: 30017146 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


509. Mol Genet Metab. 2018 Jul;124(3):189-203. doi: 10.1016/j.ymgme.2018.06.004.
Epub  2018 Jun 12.

European expert consensus statement on therapeutic goals in Fabry disease.

Wanner C(1), Arad M(2), Baron R(3), Burlina A(4), Elliott PM(5), Feldt-Rasmussen 
U(6), Fomin VV(7), Germain DP(8), Hughes DA(9), Jovanovic A(10), Kantola I(11), 
Linhart A(12), Mignani R(13), Monserrat L(14), Namdar M(15), Nowak A(16), 
Oliveira JP(17), Ortiz A(18), Pieroni M(19), Spada M(20), Tylki-Szymańska A(21), 
Tøndel C(22), Viana-Baptista M(23), Weidemann F(24), Hilz MJ(25).

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, University Clinic, University of Würzburg, Würzburg, 
Germany. Electronic address: Wanner_C@ukw.de.
(2)Leviev Heart Center, Sheba Medical Center, Tel Hashomer, Tel Aviv University, 
Israel.
(3)Division of Neurological Pain Research and Therapy, Department of Neurology, 
Universitätsklinikum Schleswig-Holstein, Kiel, Germany.
(4)Neurological Unit, St Bassiano Hospital, Bassano del Grappa, Italy.
(5)Barts Heart Centre, University College London, London, United Kingdom.
(6)Department of Medical Endocrinology, Section 2132, Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen 
University Hospital, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(7)I.M. Sechenov First Moscow State Medical University, Department of Internal 
Diseases No. 1, Moscow, Russian Federation.
(8)French Referral Center for Fabry disease, Division of Medical Genetics and 
INSERM U1179, University of Versailles, Paris-Saclay University, Montigny, 
France.
(9)Lysosomal Storage Disorders Unit, Department of Haematology, Royal Free 
London NHS Foundation Trust, University College London, United Kingdom.
(10)Mark Holland Metabolic Unit, Salford Royal NHS Foundation Trust, Salford, 
United Kingdom.
(11)Division of Medicine, Turku University Hospital, Turku, Finland.
(12)Second Department of Medicine - Department of Cardiovascular Medicine, 1st 
Faculty of Medicine, Charles University and General University Hospital, Prague, 
Czech Republic.
(13)Department of Nephrology, Infermi Hospital, Rimini, Italy.
(14)Health in Code, A Coruña, Spain.
(15)Service de Cardiologie, Hôpitaux Universitaires de Genève, Geneva, 
Switzerland.
(16)University Heart Center, University Hospital of Zurich and University of 
Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.
(17)Department of Genetics, São João Hospital Centre & Faculty of Medicine and 
"Instituto de Investigação e Inovação em Saúde (i3S)", University of Porto, 
Porto, Portugal.
(18)Unidad de Diálisis, IIS-Fundación Jiménez Díaz/UAM, IRSIN and REDINREN, 
Madrid, Spain.
(19)Cardiovascular Department, San Donato Hospital, Arezzo, Italy.
(20)Department of Paediatrics, University of Torino, Torino, Italy.
(21)Department of Paediatrics, Nutrition and Metabolic Diseases, Children's 
Memorial Health Institute, Warsaw, Poland.
(22)Department of Paediatrics, Haukeland University Hospital and Department of 
Clinical Medicine, University of Bergen, Bergen, Norway.
(23)Serviço de Neurologia, Hospital Egas Moniz, Centro Hospitalar de Lisboa 
Ocidental, CEDOC Faculdade de Ciências Médicas, Universidade Nova de Lisboa, 
Lisboa, Portugal.
(24)Department of Cardiology, Innere Klinik II, Katharinen-Hospital, Unna, 
Germany.
(25)Department of Neurology, University of Erlangen-Nuremberg, Erlangen, 
Germany.

BACKGROUND: Fabry disease, an inherited lysosomal storage disorder, causes 
multi-organ pathology resulting in substantial morbidity and a reduced life 
expectancy. Although Fabry disease is an X-linked disorder, both genders may be 
affected, but generally to a lesser extent in females. The disease spectrum 
ranges from classic early-onset disease to non-classic later-onset phenotypes, 
with complications occurring in multiple organs or being confined to a single 
organ system depending on the stage of the disease. The impact of therapy 
depends upon patient- and disease-specific factors and timing of initiation.
METHODS: A European panel of experts collaborated to develop a set of 
organ-specific therapeutic goals for Fabry disease, based on evidence identified 
in a recent systematic literature review and consensus opinion.
RESULTS: A series of organ-specific treatment goals were developed. For each 
organ system, optimal treatment strategies accounted for inter-patient 
differences in disease severity, natural history, and treatment responses as 
well as the negative burden of therapy and the importance of multidisciplinary 
care. The consensus therapeutic goals and proposed patient management algorithm 
take into account the need for early disease-specific therapy to delay or slow 
the progression of disease as well as non-specific adjunctive therapies that 
prevent or treat the effects of organ damage on quality of life and long-term 
prognosis.
CONCLUSIONS: These consensus recommendations help advance Fabry disease 
management by considering the balance between anticipated clinical benefits and 
potential therapy-related challenges in order to facilitate individualized 
treatment, optimize patient care and improve quality of life.

Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ymgme.2018.06.004
PMID: 30017653 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


510. Radiol Oncol. 2018 Feb 25;52(2):167-172. doi: 10.2478/raon-2018-0010. 
eCollection 2018 Jun.

Glioblastoma in Patients over 70 Years of Age.

Smrdel U(1), Vidmar MS(1), Smrdel A(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiotherapy, Institute of Oncology Ljubljana, Ljubljana, 
Slovenia.
(2)Faculty of Computer and Information Science, University of Ljubljana, 
Ljubljana, Slovenia.

BACKGROUND: Glioblastoma has in last 20 years seen the steady increase of 
incidence, which is most prominent in the group of older patients. These older 
than 70 years have significantly poorer prognosis than other patients and are 
considered a distinct group of glioblastoma patients. Modified prognostic 
factors are being used in these patients and this information is lately 
supplemented with the genetic and epigenetic information on tumour. The therapy 
is now often tailored accordingly. The aim of our study was to analyse the 
current treatment of the glioblastoma patients over 70 years of age to determine 
the impact of clinical prognostic factors.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Among patients treated at the Institute of Oncology 
Ljubljana between 1997 and 2015, we found that 207 were older than 70 years. We 
analysed their survival, clinical prognostic factors (age, performance status) 
treatment modalities (extent of surgery, radiation dose, chemotherapy).
RESULTS: Median survival of patients older than 70 years was 5.3 months which 
was statistically significant inferior to the survival of younger patients (p < 
0.001). The clinical prognostic factors that influenced survival the most were 
performance status (p < 0.001), extent of surgical resection (p < 0.001), 
addition of temozolomide (p < 0.001) and addition of radiotherapy (p = 0.006). 
Patients receiving concomitant radiochemotherapy with temozolomide followed by 
adjuvant temozolomide, had same median survival as patients receiving adjuvant 
temozolomide after completion of radiotherapy.
CONCLUSIONS: The increase of the number of older patients with glioblastoma 
corresponds to the increase in the life expectancy but in Slovenia also to the 
increased availability of diagnostic procedures. Clinical prognostic markers are 
helpful in decision on the aggressiveness of treatment. Radiotherapy and 
temozolomide have the biggest impact on survival, but the radiotherapy dose 
seems to be of secondary importance. In selected patients, chemotherapy alone 
might be sufficient to achieve an optimal effect. Patients that were fitter, had 
more aggressive surgery, and received temozolomide fared the best. The 
scheduling of the temozolomide seems to have limited impact on survival as in 
our study, there was no difference weather patients received temozolomide 
concomitant with radiotherapy or after the radiotherapy. Thus far, our findings 
corroborate the usefulness of recursive partitioning analysis (RPA) classes in 
clinical decisions.

DOI: 10.2478/raon-2018-0010
PMCID: PMC6043876
PMID: 30018520


511. J Adv Pract Oncol. 2017 May-Jun;8(4):382-386. Epub 2017 May 1.

Palliative Chemotherapy: Does It Only Provide False Hope? The Role of Palliative 
Care in a Young Patient With Newly Diagnosed Metastatic Adenocarcinoma.

Doverspike L(1), Kurtz S(2), Selvaggi K(1).

Author information:
(1)Butler Health System, Palliative Care Division, Butler, Pennsylvania.
(2)Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Department of Medical Oncology, Boston, 
Massachusetts.

Case Study A 48-year-old female with recent diagnosis of adenocarcinoma of 
unknown origin and metastatic disease to the peritoneum initially presented to a 
nearby academic hospital with abdominal pain. She underwent exploratory 
laparotomy with tumor debulking surgery at that time. Shortly thereafter, she 
was readmitted to the same hospital with evidence of partial small bowel 
obstruction and treated conservatively with bowel rest, nasogastric (NG) tube 
placement, and intravenous (IV) fluid administration. Eventually the NG tube was 
removed, and she was discharged home. The following day, she received cycle one 
of palliative chemotherapy with cisplatin and gemcitabine at her local 
outpatient oncology clinic. She experienced persistent nausea and intermittent 
vomiting throughout the night and presented to our local community hospital for 
evaluation. At the time of admission, she was passing minimal flatus and had 
passed only a small bowel movement that morning. She had experienced nausea, 
vomiting, and poor oral intake for over a week. Other presenting symptoms 
included mild to moderate abdominal pain involving the upper abdomen. Upon 
evaluation, abdominal x-ray revealed dilated loops of small bowel, consistent 
with partial small bowel obstruction. An NG tube was placed, and the patient's 
symptoms were initially improved with bowel rest. Her medical history was 
significant for pulmonary embolism detected at the time of her adenocarcinoma 
diagnosis, and she was on oral anticoagulation and home oxygen. She also had a 
history of depression and total abdominal hysterectomy/bilateral 
salpingo-oophorectomy (TAH/BSO) due to fibroids. Her social history revealed she 
was an office worker and married with two sons, ages 18 and 24. The 18-year-old 
son lived at home with the patient and her husband. The patient was eagerly 
awaiting the birth of a granddaughter, due in a few weeks' time. Her mother and 
father were also present daily during her hospitalization and were a major 
source of support for her and her family. At the time of hospital admission, a 
surgical team consultation concluded she was not a candidate for palliative 
surgery due to extensive disease burden. She was seen in consultation by medical 
oncology, who recommended resuming chemotherapy once the acute partial small- 
bowel obstruction resolved. Palliative Care Consult A palliative care 
consultation was requested to assist with symptom management, including pain and 
nausea relief. At the time of consultation, the patient appeared in mild 
distress due to abdominal pain and distention. Vital signs were stable. Physical 
exam was significant for absent bowel sounds and a mildly distended but 
nontender abdomen. The NG tube was in place, draining bilious gastric fluid. She 
had mild nonpitting edema involving the bilateral lower extremities. Discussion 
with the patient revealed values consistent with improving symptoms and 
extending life expectancy as long as possible. The patient expressed wishes for 
"aggressive treatment," which she defined as continuation of chemotherapy and 
full resuscitation. The palliative care team discussed symptom management 
options with the patient. Nonsurgical management of partial bowel obstruction 
was continued, including bowel rest, NG tube decompression, and IV fluids. Pain 
was controlled initially with IV morphine as needed. After symptom improvement 
and evidence of bowel function recovery, the NG tube was removed. However, after 
a short time, she required NG tube replacement due to recurrent nausea and 
vomiting. Discussion was initiated with the patient, who opted for placement of 
a venting gastrostomy tube (G-tube) and total parenteral nutrition (TPN), with 
the goal of symptom relief and administration of nutrition, which would allow 
for continuation of chemotherapy. During placement of the venting G-tube, the 
gastroenterology (GI) team noted extensive tumor involving the stomach, which 
made placement of the tube difficult. Additionally, anticoagulation was held 
during G-tube placement, and postoperatively, the patient experienced acute, 
right-sided chest pain and shortness of breath. Computed tomography (CT) scan 
with pulmonary embolus (PE) protocol revealed a new PE, and anticoagulation was 
changed to enoxaparin. Shortly thereafter, she became febrile and developed 
leukocytosis. Blood cultures revealed coagulase-negative staphylococcus from a 
Port-a-Cath source. She was treated with appropriate antibiotic therapy; 
however, follow-up blood cultures revealed persistent coagulase-negative 
staphylococcus bacteremia. Her indwelling Port-a-Cath was removed. After 
appropriate antibiotic therapy, a peripherally inserted central catheter line 
was inserted and TPN restarted. Reinstituting Palliative Chemotherapy Palliative 
care discussion with the patient confirmed her desire to reinstitute palliative 
chemotherapy, with the goal of restoring bowel function and returning home. 
Chemotherapy was resumed on day 15, despite concerns and even objections from 
several nursing staff members. The patient experienced treatment side effects, 
including prolonged thrombocytopenia. A platelet function antibody returned 
positive, consistent with heparin-induced thrombocytopenia. Enoxaparin was 
discontinued, and fondaparinux (Arixtra) was initiated. Platelet count recovered 
shortly thereafter. The patient required intense symptom management due to 
intractable abdominal pain and nausea and vomiting despite adequate venting 
G-tube decompression. Medical management was maximized with antiemetics, 
antisecretory agents, steroids, and antipsychotic agents, and symptoms 
eventually improved after cycle 2 of chemotherapy. Thereafter, the patient was 
discharged home. At the time of discharge, her symptoms were well controlled on 
minimal pain medications. She was still experiencing intermittent nausea but was 
passing flatus. By reducing the tumor burden, chemotherapy significantly 
improved her quality of life. She spent a total of 7 weeks in the hospital. 
During that time, she received two cycles of chemotherapy plus best supportive 
care and symptom management. Despite intermittent nausea and vomiting, 
administration of palliative chemotherapy allowed this patient to achieve her 
primary goals, which included returning home to her family and regaining some 
bowel function. Over the next several months, she received several more cycles 
of outpatient palliative chemotherapy. She experienced mild to moderate nausea 
and intermittent vomiting despite G-tube venting. Eventually, her disease 
progressed, and the patient chose to forgo any further intervention or 
chemotherapy. She was enrolled in hospice care and died comfortably at home 
surrounded by her family.

PMCID: PMC6040871
PMID: 30018843


512. Am J Transplant. 2018 Nov;18(11):2798-2803. doi: 10.1111/ajt.15025. Epub
2018  Aug 21.

Determinants of organ donation registration.

Shacham E(1), Loux T(1), Barnidge EK(1), Lew D(1), Pappaterra L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Behavioral Science and Health Education, College of Public 
Health and Social Justice, St. Louis, MO, USA.

Rates of organ donor registration range from 20% to 60% throughout the United 
States. The purpose of this study was to examine sociogeographic differences in 
organ donor registration rates throughout Missouri to identify varying patterns 
The organ donor registration rate from each Department of Motor Vehicle office 
in Missouri was extracted from the National Organ Registration database, office 
locations were geocoded, and census tract level sociodemographic characteristics 
were extracted. Spatial regression analyses were conducted to identify 
relationships between location of DMV offices and census tract-level 
concentrated disadvantage. Census tract-level concentrated disadvantage 
(education attainment, poverty, single-headed households) had a significant 
negative relationship with organ donor registration rates. Yet, census 
tract-level African American/Black resident concentration was not significantly 
related to organ donor registration rates. These findings suggest that 
race-based interventions to recruit organ donors may no longer be necessary. 
Yet, identifying how characteristics of concentrated disadvantage may be more 
influential in determining organ donor registration. Gaining a better 
understanding of how individual decisions are made is integral in the context of 
increased life expectancy in conjunction with the complex management of chronic 
conditions.

© 2018 The American Society of Transplantation and the American Society of 
Transplant Surgeons.

DOI: 10.1111/ajt.15025
PMID: 30019496 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


513. Mol Oncol. 2018 Sep;12(9):1415-1428. doi: 10.1002/1878-0261.12350. Epub 2018
Aug  9.

A fine-needle aspiration-based protein signature discriminates benign from 
malignant breast lesions.

Franzén B(1), Kamali-Moghaddam M(2), Alexeyenko A(3)(4), Hatschek T(1), Becker 
S(3)(4), Wik L(2), Kierkegaard J(5)(6), Eriksson A(7), Muppani NR(2), Auer G(1), 
Landegren U(2), Lewensohn R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology and Pathology, Cancer Center Karolinska, Karolinska 
Institutet and University Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden.
(2)Department of Immunology, Genetics and Pathology, Science for Life 
Laboratory, Uppsala University, Sweden.
(3)Department of Microbiology, Tumor and Cell Biology (MTC), Karolinska 
Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.
(4)National Bioinformatics Infrastructure Sweden, Science for Life Laboratory, 
Solna, Sweden.
(5)BröstCentrum City, Stockholm, Sweden.
(6)Capio S:t Görans Sjukhus, Stockholm, Sweden.
(7)KIGene, MMK, Neurogenetics Unit, CMM, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, 
Sweden.

There are increasing demands for informative cancer biomarkers, accessible via 
minimally invasive procedures, both for initial diagnostics and to follow-up 
personalized cancer therapy. Fine-needle aspiration (FNA) biopsy provides ready 
access to relevant tissues; however, the minute sample amounts require sensitive 
multiplex molecular analysis to achieve clinical utility. We have applied 
proximity extension assays (PEA) and NanoString (NS) technology for analyses of 
proteins and of RNA, respectively, in FNA samples. Using samples from patients 
with breast cancer (BC, n = 25) or benign lesions (n = 33), we demonstrate that 
these FNA-based molecular analyses (a) can offer high sensitivity and 
reproducibility, (b) may provide correct diagnosis in shorter time and at a 
lower cost than current practice, (c) correlate with results from routine 
analysis (i.e., benchmarking against immunohistochemistry tests for ER, PR, 
HER2, and Ki67), and (d) may also help identify new markers related to 
immunotherapy. A specific 11-protein signature, including FGF binding protein 1, 
decorin, and furin, distinguished all cancer patient samples from all benign 
lesions in our main cohort and in smaller replication cohort. Due to the 
minimally traumatic sampling and rich molecular information, this combined 
proteomics and transcriptomic methodology is promising for diagnostics and 
evaluation of treatment efficacy in BC.

© 2018 The Authors. Published by FEBS Press and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/1878-0261.12350
PMCID: PMC6120227
PMID: 30019538 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


514. J Med Econ. 2018 Nov;21(11):1057-1066. doi: 10.1080/13696998.2018.1502191.
Epub  2018 Aug 16.

The potential value of rapid, cloud-enabled onsite testing for the diagnosis of 
rheumatoid arthritis in the United States.

Bognar K(1), Shafrin J(1), Brauer M(1), Zhao L(1), Hockett R(2), O'Neil M(2), 
Jena A(3).

Author information:
(1)a Precision Health Economics , Los Angeles , CA , USA.
(2)b Genalyte , San Diego , CA , USA.
(3)c Harvard Medical School Department of Health Care Policy , Boston , MA , 
USA.

AIMS: Improvements in information technology have granted the recent development 
of rapid, cloud-enabled, onsite laboratory testing for rheumatoid arthritis 
(RA). This study aims to quantify the value to payers of such technologies.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: To calculate the value of rapid, cloud-enabled, onsite 
laboratory testing to diagnose RA relative to traditional, centralized 
laboratory testing, an Excel-based decision tree model was created that 
simulated potential cost-savings to payers who cover routine evaluations of RA 
patients in the US. First, a conceptual framework was created to identify the 
value components of rapid, cloud-enabled onsite testing. Second, value 
associated with patient time savings, savings on visit fees, change in treatment 
costs, and QALY improvements was measured, leveraging existing literature and 
information from an observational study. Lastly, these value components were 
combined to estimate the total incremental value accruing to payers per 
patient-year relative to centralized laboratory testing.
RESULTS: Rapid, cloud-enabled, onsite testing is estimated to save one office 
and 1.81 laboratory visits during the evaluation period for the average patient. 
Results from an observational study found that rapid, cloud-enabled testing 
increased the likelihood of completing diagnostic orders from 84.5% to 97%, 
resulting in an increased probability of early treatment (3.5 percentage points) 
with disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs among patients eligible for 
treatment. The combined total value was $5,648 per evaluated patient-year. This 
value is primarily attributed to health benefits of early treatment ($5,048), 
fewer visit payments ($459), and patient time savings due to fewer office ($216) 
and laboratory visits ($255).
LIMITATIONS AND CONCLUSIONS: Data on the impact of rapid, cloud-enabled, onsite 
testing on patient health, care delivery, and clinical decision-making is 
scarce. More robust real-world data would confirm the validity of our model. 
Rapid, cloud-enabled, onsite testing has the potential to generate significant 
value to payers.

DOI: 10.1080/13696998.2018.1502191
PMID: 30019600 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


515. Clin Nurs Res. 2020 Jul;29(6):375-381. doi: 10.1177/1054773818788969. Epub
2018  Jul 18.

The Experiences of Muslim Family Members of Critically Ill Patients During 
End-of-Life Care in Saudi Arabia: A Qualitative Phenomenological Study.

Al Mutair A(1)(2), Al Shaer A(3), Al Ghamdi F(3), Al Ghamdi A(3).

Author information:
(1)Inaya Medical College, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
(2)Wollongong University, Australia.
(3)King Fahad Military Complex-Dahran, Saudi Arabia.

The aim of this study was to identify the needs, beliefs, and practices of 
Muslim family members during the end-of-life care for a family member in the 
intensive care unit (ICU) in Saudi Arabia. This was a phenomenological study 
using in-depth individual interviews to gather data. Ten family members of adult 
ICU patients receiving end-of-life care were interviewed. The experiences of 
family members during end-of-life care were reflected in four major themes: (a) 
the spirituality of death, (b) family's need for information, (c) being there, 
and (d) the ICU environment. Participants placed high value on religious 
practices such as prayer, and appreciated when these practices could be 
accommodated in the ICU. Family participants also detailed their need for 
frequent communication and opportunities to ask questions about the care of 
their critically ill loved one. Being able to spend as much time as desired in 
close proximity to the critically ill patient particularly as the end of life 
approaches was also important, with participants suggesting that visitation 
times should be waived. Finally, family participant suggested that changes were 
needed to the ICU environment to make accommodating large families easier and 
more comfortable particularly when they wish to spend significant time at the 
bedside of their loved one. Family should be prioritized as an extension of the 
care provided to critically ill ICU patients, particularly those approaching end 
of life. A model of care should be introduced to deliver supportive and holistic 
care during the end-of-life care journey, supported by appropriate education 
regarding family care at the end of life.

DOI: 10.1177/1054773818788969
PMID: 30019926 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


516. J Am Vet Med Assoc. 2018 Aug 1;253(3):307-314. doi: 10.2460/javma.253.3.307.

Retrospective survey of owners' experiences with palliative radiation therapy 
for pets.

Fan VC, Mayer MN, Sukut SL, Gustafson NR, Mauldin GN, Waldner CL.

OBJECTIVE To describe animal owners' experiences with palliative radiation 
therapy (PRT) of pets and identify factors influencing satisfaction with their 
pets' treatment. DESIGN Retrospective, cross-sectional study. SAMPLE 118 owners 
of dogs, cats, or rabbits. PROCEDURES Medical records were searched to identify 
animals that underwent PRT between 2004 and 2013. Signalment, tumor-related 
data, and outcome information were recorded. Owners completed an electronic 
survey assessing satisfaction with treatment (ie, satisfaction with the decision 
for their pet to undergo PRT and indication that they would choose PRT for their 
pet again), expectations regarding PRT, and perceptions of their pets' quality 
of life (QOL) and signs of discomfort from acute adverse radiation effects. 
Additional data regarding practical aspects of treatment, pet death, 
communications with veterinarians, and owner demographics were collected. 
Variables were tested for association with measures of owner satisfaction. 
RESULTS 92 of 116 (79%) owners were satisfied with the decision to have their 
pets undergo PRT. Most (92/118 [78%]) owners reported their pet's QOL improved 
after PRT; these owners were significantly more likely to be satisfied than 
those who did not report improved QOL. Owners who perceived their pets had 
discomfort from adverse radiation effects (38/116 [33%]) were significantly less 
likely to be satisfied than owners who did not report this observation. Measures 
of satisfaction were not associated with patient survival time. Twenty-one of 
118 (18%) owners indicated they expected PRT would cure their pet's tumor. 
CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE Results suggested that short life expectancy 
should not deter recommendation of PRT for pets. Protocols that minimize risk of 
acute adverse effects may be advantageous. Veterinarians should attempt to 
ensure that owners understand the goals of PRT.

DOI: 10.2460/javma.253.3.307
PMID: 30019997 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


517. Deep Neck Infections.

Almuqamam M(1), Gonzalez FJ, Kondamudi NP(2).

In: StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2023 
Jan–.
2023 Aug 12.

Author information:
(1)RCSI-Bahrain/Brooklyn Hospital Center
(2)Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai , The Brooklyn Hospital Center

Deep neck infections are a serious but treatable group of infections affecting 
the deep cervical space and characterized by rapid progression and 
life-threatening complications. These infections remain an important health 
problem with significant morbidity and potential mortality. These infections 
most frequently arise from the local extension of infections from tonsils, 
parotid glands, cervical lymph nodes, and odontogenic structures. They 
classically present with symptoms related to local pressure effects on the 
respiratory, nervous, or gastrointestinal (GI) tract (particularly neck 
mass/swelling/induration, dysphagia, dysphonia, and trismus). The specific 
presenting symptoms will depend on the deep neck space involved (parapharyngeal, 
retropharyngeal, prevertebral, submental, masticator, etc).

Copyright © 2023, StatPearls Publishing LLC.

PMID: 30020634

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure: Mohamed Almuqamam declares no 
relevant financial relationships with ineligible companies. Disclosure: 
Francisco Gonzalez declares no relevant financial relationships with ineligible 
companies. Disclosure: Noah Kondamudi declares no relevant financial 
relationships with ineligible companies.


518. Patellar Tendon Rupture.

Hsu H(1), Siwiec RM(2).

In: StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2023 
Jan–.
2023 Feb 13.

Author information:
(1)Michigan State University
(2)Michigan State University/Center for Advanced Orthopedics and Sports Medicine

A patellar tendon rupture involves a complete tear of the tendon that runs from 
the patella's inferior pole to the tibial tubercle. It is typically seen in 
males in their third or fourth decade of life. It tends to result from an 
overall weakened tendon placed under high tensile forces. These tendon ruptures 
are best classified into acute versus chronic tears, depending on the time from 
rupture. This type of injury requires prompt diagnosis and surgical repair as 
the patellar tendon is a part of the extensor mechanism. The extensor mechanism 
of the knee is crucial to the function of the lower extremity, including 
ambulation. It is solely responsible for extending and straightening the knee 
and resisting knee flexion – a crucial aspect of standing with a flexed knee 
and, therefore, ambulation. Without a properly functioning knee extensor 
mechanism, the patient is severely limited functionally. Surgical intervention 
depends on the timing and location of the rupture. Acute ruptures are amenable 
to primary repair, whereas chronic ruptures often require tendon 
reconstruction.  Anatomy The knee extensor mechanism is composed of the 
quadriceps muscle, quadriceps tendon, medial and lateral patellar retinaculum, 
patella, patellar tendon, and tibial tubercle. The quadriceps muscle is composed 
of four separate muscles with different origins but a common insertion point on 
the patella through the quadriceps tendon. Quadriceps Muscles with Origins: 
Rectus femoris – anterior superior iliac spine and superior acetabular rim. 
Vastus lateralis – greater trochanter and lateral linea aspera. Vastus 
intermedius – proximal femoral shaft. Vastus medialis – intertrochanteric line 
and medial linea aspera. The medial and lateral patellar retinaculum are on 
their respective sides of the patella and are continuous with the vastus fascia 
to the tibia and the patella. They are minor patellar stabilizers and, if 
intact, can provide knee extension and straight leg raising despite a patellar 
or quadriceps tendon rupture. The patella is a sesamoid bone. It functions to 
increase the moment arm from the knee joint axis, thereby increasing the 
mechanical advantage and quadriceps pull in extension. The patella begins to 
engage the trochlea at 20 degrees of flexion and is fully engaged by 40 degrees 
of flexion. Joint reaction forces in the patellofemoral joint can be up to three 
times the body weight with stair climbing and seven times the bodyweight with 
deep bending. The patellar tendon, by definition, is a ligament as it connects 
bone (patella) to bone (tibial tubercle). The patellar tendon is approximately 
30 mm wide by 50 mm long, with a thickness of 5 to 7 mm. The origin on the 
inferior pole of the patella is juxtaposed on the articular cartilage on the 
deep side and becomes confluent with the periosteum of the patella anteriorly. 
The tibial insertion is narrower and invests the entirety of the tibial 
tubercle, connecting the quadriceps muscles to the lower leg.

Copyright © 2023, StatPearls Publishing LLC.

PMID: 30020647

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure: Hunter Hsu declares no relevant 
financial relationships with ineligible companies. Disclosure: Ryan Siwiec 
declares no relevant financial relationships with ineligible companies.


519. Am J Manag Care. 2018 Jul;24(8 Spec No.):SP265-SP272.

Costs associated with long-acting insulin analogues in patients with diabetes.

Alemayehu B(1), Speiser J, Bloudek L, Sarnes E.

Author information:
(1)Center for Observational and Real-World Evidence, Merck & Co, Inc, 351 N 
Sumneytown Pike, North Wales, PA 19454. Email: berhanu.alemayehu@merck.com.

OBJECTIVES: The objective of this literature review was to evaluate the costs 
associated with the use of long-acting insulin analogues (LAIAs) compared with 
non-LAIA agents, including human insulin, oral antidiabetic drugs, and other 
injectable therapies, in the treatment of patients with type 1 diabetes (T1D) or 
type 2 diabetes (T2D).
STUDY DESIGN: A systematic review of the medical literature (MEDLINE, EMBASE, 
Cochrane, EconLit) conducted from 2004 to 2016.
METHODS: The review protocol was developed according to the Preferred Reporting 
Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses guidelines. Inclusion criteria 
for studies were: patients with T1D and/or T2D, LAIA intervention, and 
comparators, including oral antidiabetics (OADs) or neutral protamine Hagedorn 
(NPH). Outcomes of interest were adherence measures; economic outcomes, 
including total costs, cost savings, and willingness-to-pay; and 
cost-effectiveness or incremental cost-effectiveness analyses. Real-world costs 
of individual LAIAs were also evaluated and are often compared against those of 
other LAIAs in the economic analyses.
RESULTS: We identified and included 117 relevant studies. Patients using LAIAs 
had higher drug costs than those using OADs and NPH but had neutral or reduced 
total and diabetes-related costs compared with patients using non-LAIAs. Use of 
LAIA pen-delivery systems may lead to improved adherence and reduction in costs. 
Patients receiving insulin glargine demonstrated higher adherence and 
persistence than patients on insulin detemir. Economic models suggest that LAIAs 
are more cost-effective than NPH for T1D; for T2D, insulin glargine is more 
costly than NPH but less so than insulin detemir.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite higher drug costs, the real-world overall medical costs of 
LAIAs are not significantly different from those of NPH in patients with 
diabetes. The findings may be helpful for formulary decision making for patients 
with diabetes in a cost-constrained environment.

PMID: 30020738 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


520. Int J Biol Macromol. 2018 Oct 15;118(Pt B):2138-2148. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2018.07.059. Epub 2018 Jul 22.

Extraction, purification, characterization and antioxidant activities of 
polysaccharides from Zizyphus jujuba cv. Linzexiaozao.

Wang Y(1), Xu Y(2), Ma X(3), Liu X(4), Yang M(2), Fan W(2), Ren H(2), Efehi 
N(5), Wang X(6), Zhu X(6).

Author information:
(1)School of Life Science and Engineering, Lanzhou University of Technology, 
Lanzhou 730000, China. Electronic address: 412316788@163.com.
(2)School of Life Science and Engineering, Lanzhou University of Technology, 
Lanzhou 730000, China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Veterinary Etiological Biology, National Foot and 
Mouth Disease Reference Laboratory, Lanzhou Veterinary Research Institute, 
Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Lanzhou 730046, China.
(4)School of Life Science and Engineering, Lanzhou University of Technology, 
Lanzhou 730000, China. Electronic address: 18009400938@163.com.
(5)School of Life Science and Engineering, Lanzhou University of Technology, 
Lanzhou 730000, China; Faculty of Life Sciences, University of Benin, Nigeria, 
PMB 1154 Benin City, Nigeria.
(6)Lanzhou Institute of Husbandry and Pharmaceutical Science, Chinese Academy of 
Agricultural Sciences, Lanzhou 730050, China.

The extraction process, purification and characterization analyses of 
polysaccharides (LZJP) in Ziziphus jujuba planted in Linze County, Gansu 
Province were investigated, respectively. The results showed a maximum 
polysaccharide yield of 5.72% was achieved at a solid/liquid ratio of 1:20 g/mL 
for 90 min at 80 °C. Two homogenous acidic polysaccharides (LZJP3 and LZJP4) 
were purified successively by DEAE-52 cellulose and Sephadex G-100 column 
chromatography. LZJP3 is composed of one polymer with galactose while LZJP4 is 
made up of two different kinds of polymers with xylose and glucose by 
size-exclusion chromatograph combined with multi-angle laser photometer 
(HPSEC-LLS) and gas chromatography (GC) analysis. LZJP3 and LZJP4 were β-pyran 
polysaccharides with a large number of molecular globular aggregates by FT-IR 
(Fourier-transform infrared) and AFM (Atomic force microscopy) analysis, and the 
surface morphology exhibited smooth and filamentous staggered extension in the 
form of rod-like aggregation with SEM (Scanning electron microscopy) 
determination. Meanwhile, LZJP3 and LZJP4 exhibited antioxidant activities 
against DPPH, hydroxyl radical, hydrogen peroxide, superoxide radical and 
stronger reducing power in vitro with the concentration increasing. The results 
indicated that LZJPs were worthy of being developed further as a natural 
antioxidant in food and medicine industries.

Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2018.07.059
PMID: 30021134 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


521. BMC Gastroenterol. 2018 Jul 18;18(1):118. doi: 10.1186/s12876-018-0838-3.

Design of the Weight-loss Endoscopy Trial (WET): a multi-center, randomized, 
controlled trial comparing weight loss in endoscopically implanted 
duodenal-jejunal bypass liners vs. intragastric balloons vs. a sham procedure.

Hollenbach M(1), Prettin C(2), Gundling F(3), Schepp W(3), Seufert J(4), Stein 
J(5), Rösch T(6), Aberle J(7), Feisthammel J(8), Petroff D(2), Hoffmeister A(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Neurology and Dermatology; Division of 
Gastroenterology and Rheumatology, University of Leipzig, Liebigstrasse 20, 
D-04103, Leipzig, Germany. marcus.hollenbach@web.de.
(2)Clinical Trial Center Leipzig, University of Leipzig, Leipzig, Germany.
(3)Clinic for Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Gastrointestinal Oncology; 
Bogenhausen Clinic, Munich, Germany.
(4)Clinic for Internal Medicine II; Division of Endocrinology and Diabetology, 
University of Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany.
(5)Clinic for Internal Medicine; Division of Gastroenterology; Sachsenhausen 
Clinic, Frankfurt, Germany.
(6)Clinic for Interdisciplinary Endoscopy; Center for Radiology and Endoscopy, 
University of Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg, Germany.
(7)Clinic for Endocrinology, Diabetology, Adiopsity and Lipids, University of 
Hamburg- Eppendorf, Hamburg, Germany.
(8)Department of Medicine, Neurology and Dermatology; Division of 
Gastroenterology and Rheumatology, University of Leipzig, Liebigstrasse 20, 
D-04103, Leipzig, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Obesity is a global problem leading to reduced life expectancy, 
cardiovascular diseases, diabetes and many types of cancer. Even people willing 
to accept treatment only achieve a mean weight loss of about 5 kg using 
commercial weight loss programs. Surgical interventions, e.g. sleeve gastrectomy 
or gastric bypass are effective but accompanied by risk of serious complications 
and side effects. Less invasive endoscopic procedures mainly comprise the 
intragastric balloon (IB) and the duodenal-jejunal bypass liner (DJBL). To date, 
a randomized comparison between these devices has not been undertaken or shown 
to be superior to a sham procedure.
METHODS: We designed a multi-center, randomized, patient and assessor-blinded, 
controlled trial comparing weight loss in endoscopically implanted IB vs. DJBL 
vs. a sham procedure. A total of 150 patients with a BMI > 35 kg/m2 or > 30 with 
obesity-related comorbidities and indication for proton pump inhibitors are 
randomized to receive either IB, DJBL or a sham gastroscopy (2:2:1 ratio). All 
participants undergo regular dietary consultation. The IB will be removed after 
6 months, whereas the DJBL will be explanted after 12 months. All patients will 
receive gastroscopies at implantation and explantation of the devices or 
sedation without gastroscopy to maintain blinding. Main exclusion criteria are 
malignant diseases, peptic ulcer or previous bariatric intervention. Weight loss 
12 months after explantation of the devices, changes in comorbidities, quality 
of life, complication rates and safety will be evaluated.
DISCUSSION: This trial could help to identify the most effective and safest 
endoscopic device, thus determining the new standard procedure for endoscopic 
bariatric treatment.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: 16th January 2017. DRKS00011036. Funded by the German 
Research Foundation (DFG).

DOI: 10.1186/s12876-018-0838-3
PMCID: PMC6052668
PMID: 30021518 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: The 
final study protocol was approved by the ethics committee of the Medical Faculty 
of the University of Leipzig (Kaethe-Kollwitz-Str. 82, 04109 Leipzig; Germany; 
Trial registration number: DRKS00011036 on DRKS at 16th January 2017) in 
accordance with the declaration of Helsinki, the “Medical Association’s 
Professional Code of Conduct” and the principles of ICH-GCP guidelines (issued 
in June 1996, ISO14155 from 2012). In addition, the German Medical Devices Act 
(MPG, §§ 20-23a) was followed. Furthermore, local legal and regulatory 
authorities as well as the medical secrecy and the Federal Data Protection Act 
will be followed. All local ethics committees of the participating centers 
consented to the master ethics committee approval. Prior to enrollment, each 
patient will be given detailed information about the aims, scope and possible 
consequences of the trial by a physician. No diagnostic or interventional 
procedures required for the clinical trial will be performed without obtaining 
written consent from the patient. CONSENT FOR PUBLICATION: Not applicable. 
PUBLISHER’S NOTE: Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional 
claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.


522. BMC Public Health. 2018 Jul 18;18(1):891. doi: 10.1186/s12889-018-5728-7.

The BeHealthyR Study: a randomized trial of a multicomponent intervention to 
reduce stress, smoking and improve financial health of low-income residents in 
Rotterdam.

Shagiwal SS(1), Schop-Etman A(2), Bergwerff I(3), Vrencken W(4), Denktaş S(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Social and Behavioral Sciences, Erasmus University 
College/Erasmus University Rotterdam, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. 
s.s.shagiwal@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Social and Behavioral Sciences, Erasmus University 
College/Erasmus University Rotterdam, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(3)Avant Sanare, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(4)Indigo Rijnmond, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Compared to higher socioeconomic status (SES) groups, those in lower 
SES groups are financially strained, experience higher rates of smoking-related 
morbidity, are in poorer health and have reduced life expectancy. This is 
especially true for the city of Rotterdam, where a large inequality in health is 
observed between low and high SES groups. The BeHealthyR study (Dutch: Grip en 
Gezondheid) is a randomized controlled trial (RCT) which will evaluate the 
impact of a theory-based multicomponent behavior intervention aiming to reduce 
stress, smoking, and improve financial health by means of a group-based stress 
management program combining cognitive and behavioral techniques, and nudges in 
low-SES residents living in Rotterdam.
METHODS: The BeHealthyR study is a three-arm RCT. Between February 2018 and July 
2019, low-SES participants who perceive stress, smoke, are financially strained 
and reside in Rotterdam (one of the four largest cities in The Netherlands) are 
recruited. Subsequently, participants are randomly assigned to either a stress 
management condition (SM), stress management with a buddy condition (SM-B) or a 
control condition (CC). Participants in the SM and SM-B conditions will attend 
four weekly group sessions (1.5 h/session) and a follow-up session eight weeks 
later. The SM condition includes psychoeducation and exercises, and cognitive 
and behavioral intervention techniques. Demographic data and objective measures 
will be collected at baseline (T0), four weeks post-baseline (T1), and twelve 
weeks post-baseline (T2). Primary outcome measures are to reduce stress, smoking 
and improve financial health. We hypothesize that low-SES participants in the 
intervention conditions, compared with those in the control condition, will 
experience less stress, smoke less and have improved financial health.
DISCUSSION: This study is a group-based intervention which aims to investigate 
the effects of a theory-based behavioral change intervention employing several 
components on reducing stress, smoking, and improving financial health in 
low-SES residents living in Rotterdam. If effective, the findings from the 
present study will serve to inform future directions of research and clinical 
practice with regard to behavioral change interventions for low-SES groups.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov (ID: NCT03553979 ). Registered on January 
1 2018.

DOI: 10.1186/s12889-018-5728-7
PMCID: PMC6052714
PMID: 30021551 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: AUTHORS’ INFORMATION: SS, a PhD fellow at the 
Dept of Social and Behavioral Sciences at Erasmus University College/Erasmus 
University Rotterdam. AS, principal investigator at the Dept of Social and 
Behavioral Sciences at the Erasmus University College/Erasmus University 
Rotterdam. WV, psychologist at Indigo Rijnmond, course trainer for the SM 
course. IB, psychologist at Avant Sanare, course trainer for the SM course. SD, 
Professor, Head of the Dept of Social and Behavioral Sciences, Rotterdam, 
Erasmus University College/Erasmus University Rotterdam, The Netherlands. ETHICS 
APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: The study is conducted according to the 
principals of the Declaration of Helsinki and has received ethical approval from 
the METC of the Erasmus Medical University (ID: MEC-2017-535). Prior to 
inclusion, participants receive oral as well as written information about the 
intervention, personal confidentiality and the right to withdraw consent from 
the study at any time. All participating participants will be asked to provide 
written informed consent. CONSENT FOR PUBLICATION: Not applicable. COMPETING 
INTERESTS: The authors declare that they have no competing interests. 
PUBLISHER’S NOTE: Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional 
claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.


523. BMC Palliat Care. 2018 Jul 18;17(1):95. doi: 10.1186/s12904-018-0350-0.

Experiences and challenges of home care nurses and general practitioners in 
home-based palliative care - a qualitative study.

Danielsen BV(1), Sand AM(2), Rosland JH(3)(4), Førland O(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health and Caring Sciences, Faculty of Health and Social 
Sciences, Western Norway University of Applied Sciences, P.O. Box 7030, N-5020, 
Bergen, Norway. Britt.Viola.Danielsen@hvl.no.
(2)Department of Health and Caring Sciences, Faculty of Health and Social 
Sciences, Western Norway University of Applied Sciences, P.O. Box 7030, N-5020, 
Bergen, Norway.
(3)Department of Clinical Medicine, University of Bergen, Bergen, Norway.
(4)Sunniva Centre for Palliative Care, Haraldsplass Deaconess Hospital Bergen, 
Bergen, Norway.
(5)Centre for Care Research - Western Norway, Western Norway University of 
Applied Sciences, Bergen, Norway.
(6)Faculty of Health Studies, VID Specialized University, Bergen, Norway.

BACKGROUND: Norway has one of the lowest home death rates in Europe. However, it 
is the health authorities´ ambition to increase this by facilitating palliative 
care at home. The aim of this study was to achieve more insight, through home 
care nurses and general practitioners, of conditions that facilitate or hamper 
more time at home and more home deaths for patients with terminal disease and 
short life expectancy.
METHODS: We used a qualitative research design with four focus groups with a 
total of 19 participants, of either home care nurses or general practitioners, 
using semi-structured question guides. The data were processed by systematic 
text condensation and encompassed thematic analysis of meaning and content of 
data across cases, which included four steps of analysis.
RESULTS: Three main themes were identified: 1) The importance of a good start 
