are not considered operative candidates up front can be converted to resectable 
with neoadjuvant chemotherapy. It should be noted that 70% of patients who 
receive neoadjuvant chemotherapy and have so called “disappearing liver 
metastases” will have microscopic residual foci of disease in the liver, which 
is the site of local recurrence in 59% of these patients. Surgical treatment of 
liver metastases can be performed synchronous with resection of the primary 
disease, or at different times. If resectability of the colorectal disease is in 
question, this should be performed first to ensure an R0 resection prior to 
addressing the metastatic disease. If the colorectal disease is clearly 
resectable, then the liver should be approached first to ensure low central 
venous pressure during this portion of the procedure without compromising blood 
flow to an intestinal anastomosis. A minimally invasive approach may be 
appropriate depending on the location of planned resections. Given the number of 
variables that go into determining optimal treatment of colorectal cancer liver 
metastases, decisions must be made in a multidisciplinary environment that 
includes team members with expertise in radiology, interventional radiology, 
chemotherapy, and surgery. Currently, there are wide discrepancies in referral 
of patients for surgical intervention versus patients who are considered 
resectable by liver surgeons, reinforcing that multidisciplinary care is of 
utmost importance. Lung metastases are the second most common site of colorectal 
cancer metastases, but are rarely (<10%) found in isolation. Five-year survival 
is best for patients who have lung metastases resected, compared to patients 
where the lung disease is left in situ and only liver disease is removed (13% 
vs. 57%). Existing data, however, are largely retrospective. A randomized phase 
III trial to examine the effect of concurrent lung metastasectomy (PulMiCC 
trial) is currently underway. Similar to liver disease, criteria for 
resectability have expanded in the last few decades. It is currently considered 
acceptable to treat colorectal cancer lung metastases if there is complete 
treatment of the primary tumor as well as complete resection of all pulmonary 
metastases while maintaining adequate pulmonary function. Pre-operative lung 
function tests are used to assess anticipated post-operative pulmonary function 
and need for supplemental oxygen. Treatment consists of removal of the minimum 
amount of lung necessary to completely remove the metastatic deposit. Some 
consider thoracotomy superior to video assisted thoracoscopic surgery due to the 
ability to palpate the lung for additional deposits. No studies, however, show a 
survival advantage with an open compared to a thoracoscopic approach. Propensity 
score matched retrospective studies in fact suggest the opposite. Methylene blue 
staining of nodules via CT guidance or navigational bronchoscopy can also be 
used to assist with intraoperative tumor identification. Approach to thoracic 
lymph nodes is variable and of uncertain survival benefit. Positive lymph nodes 
do indicate significantly poorer prognosis. For this reason, lymph node 
examination is generally recommended for completing staging and to help 
determine prognosis, which may guide further therapies. Patients who have 
unresectable disease can alternatively be treated with radiofrequency, 
microwave, or cryoablation, or stereotactic radiation. Of patients who die of 
metastatic colorectal disease, it is believed that 25% have peritoneal 
carcinomatosis. Treatment of peritoneal carcinomatosis by cytoreduction and 
hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy (HIPEC) is of particular interest 
because progression leads to patient suffering from malignant bowel obstruction, 
weight loss, and symptomatic ascites. This can result in chemotherapy 
interruptions and repeated hospitalizations. Peritoneal carcinomatosis occurs 
more often in patients with right sided colon cancers, T3 tumors, involved 
mesenteric lymph nodes, and those who developed obstruction or perforation. 
Identification of peritoneal disease is variable because it is difficult to 
assess by existing imaging modalities, but is suggested by omental caking, 
scalloping of the diaphragm, peritoneal nodules, and ascites. 
[18F]-Fluoro-deoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) can be used to 
confirm inconclusive imaging findings, but the gold standard of assessment is 
operative exploration. A study of high risk patients with negative imaging 
identified peritoneal carcinomatosis in 68%. Diagnostic laparoscopy may be used 
to avoid exploration in patients without carcinomatosis, or with too extensive 
carcinomatosis to treat surgically (often because of disease within the 
mesentery and porta hepatis). Two prospective systematic second look operations 
studies (CEA Second Look and PROPHYLOCHIP) failed, however, to show a survival 
advantage. A randomized trial of cytoreduction and HIPEC versus systemic 
chemotherapy alone showed near doubling of survival in the cytoreduction and 
HIPEC group. This study was published prior to the widespread use of oxaliplatin 
and irinotecan though, limiting its applicability to our current patient 
population. A more recent randomized trial of systemic chemotherapy with 
cytoreduction with or without HIPEC failed to show a survival advantage in the 
HIPEC group, but showed a remarkable median survival of 41 months without HIPEC. 
Of note, no randomized trial to date shows the additive benefit of cytoreductive 
surgery to modern chemotherapy. Cytoreduction and HIPEC for peritoneal disease 
remains a popular strategy in select centers because of acceptable morbidity and 
mortality, along with reported 5-year survival of 27%. Bone metastases are 
important to address due to the pain they cause impacting patient quality of 
life. Tumor related factors not only affect the bone where they are deposited, 
but also can make adjacent nerves more sensitive to painful stimuli. Further, 
local therapy can be used in situations where most of the patient’s disease is 
controlled with systemic therapy, but bone lesions progress. External beam 
radiation therapy (EBRT) is first line because it is non-invasive and operator 
independent, but can only be used in patients who can tolerate long periods of 
immobility while the therapy is being delivered. Pain relief is experienced by 
60–80% of patients after EBRT, but can take up to 6 weeks for full effect, and 
recurs in 50% of patients by 18 weeks. Radiofrequency and microwave ablation can 
be used for local bone metastases when EBRT is not possible or fails, and 
improve symptoms in 90% of patients. Radiofrequency ablation has several 
limitations including dependence on tissue conductivity and predisposition to 
heat loss from adjacent blood vessels. Microwave ablation can achieve higher 
temperatures and generate larger ablation zones, however prospective data 
comparing radiofrequency to microwave ablation for this purpose are lacking. 
Cryoablation alternatively can be used to freeze tumor tissue. Advantages with 
cryoablation include a readily visible ablation zone, with less procedurally 
related pain compared to hyperthermic techniques. Disadvantages include absence 
of vessel coagulation that can lead to bleeding, and longer procedural time 
needed for repeat freeze-thaw cycles that are required. High intensity focused 
ultrasound (HIFU) is a newer technology that uses targeted high energy 
ultrasound waves on a focused point to induce thermal injury. It is non-invasive 
and is performed under magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) guidance allowing for 
real time assessment of thermal ablation. Its use is limited in locations that 
abut critical organs that could be affected by patient motion during treatment, 
and can only treat small tissue volumes at a time. Data is also accumulating 
that selective resection of distant lymph node metastases may have therapeutic 
benefit. Patients found to have positive peri-hepatic lymph nodes have lower 
3-year overall survival compared to those with negative peri-hepatic lymph nodes 
(25 vs. 75%). Para-aortic lymph nodes exist between the left renal vein and 
aortic bifurcation; clearance is associated with a survival advantage in 
retrospective series. They are positive in 38% of patients with suspicious 
pre-operative imaging, and when positive are associated with survival similar to 
that of distant metastatic disease. Similar findings have been reported for 
lateral pelvic lymph node resections in rectal cancer. While there is no 
survival difference between patients with and without a lateral pelvic lymph 
node dissection, there is decreased survival for those who have positive lateral 
pelvic lymph nodes. Existing data on extended lymphadenectomy is mostly from 
Eastern countries, and thus may not be well applied to Western populations. As 
such, current recommendations are to perform extended lymph node clearance only 
in select patients for prognostic purposes. Colorectal cancer brain metastases 
are rarely (<1%) the first metastatic site. Brain metastases are most often 
identified in patients with metastases to 3 or more other sites, with an average 
interval from diagnosis of colorectal cancer to detection of 20–40 months. 
One-year survival after diagnosis is 30%. Patients often present with headache 
and gait changes; fewer (24%) present with seizure. Contrast enhanced MRI is the 
diagnostic modality of choice. Treatment begins with management of seizures and 
cerebral edema if present, but should not be prophylactic. Reviews of patients 
treated for colorectal cancer brain metastases consistently show that treatment 
lengthens life. This is most true for patients with good performance status; 
those with no impairment of performance status have a median survival of 13.5 
months. Treatment with surgical resection via craniotomy is used for more 
superficial tumors that are larger, and when tissue is needed to confirm the 
diagnosis. Stereotactic radiosurgery alternatively can be used for smaller 
tumors that are located more deeply in the brain, and can be used in combination 
with surgical resection when needed. Whole brain radiation has been used after 
open surgery and stereotactic radiosurgery for metastases in the past, but a 
recent randomized trial showed no difference in survival with this additional 
treatment. In this study, 22% of each group were alive and functionally 
independent at 2 years. To conclude, there are now many accepted effective ways 
to treat colorectal cancer metastases to the liver, lung, peritoneum, bone, 
distant lymph nodes, and brain. These treatments can be used to palliate 
symptoms and also to prolong life. Due to the complexity and multifactorial 
nature of the decision making that goes into optimal patient care, treatment of 
colorectal cancer metastases should routinely be performed in a 
multidisciplinary environment to maximize patient benefit.

DOI: 10.1067/j.cpsurg.2018.08.004
PMCID: PMC6422355
PMID: 30526930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Statement All authors 
declare no conflict of interest.


133. Can J Cardiol. 2018 Dec;34(12):1553-1563. doi: 10.1016/j.cjca.2018.09.005.

Canadian Cardiovascular Society Position Statement on Familial 
Hypercholesterolemia: Update 2018.

Brunham LR(1), Ruel I(2), Aljenedil S(2), Rivière JB(2), Baass A(3), Tu JV(4), 
Mancini GBJ(5), Raggi P(6), Gupta M(7), Couture P(8), Pearson GJ(6), Bergeron 
J(8), Francis GA(9), McCrindle BW(10), Morrison K(11), St-Pierre J(12), 
Henderson M(13), Hegele RA(14), Genest J(15), Goguen J(16), Gaudet D(17), Paré 
G(18), Romney J(19), Ransom T(20), Bernard S(21), Katz P(22), Joy TR(23), Bewick 
D(24), Brophy J(15).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British 
Columbia, Canada; Centre for Heart Lung Innovation, University of British 
Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. Electronic address: 
Liam.brunham@ubc.ca.
(2)Research Institute of the McGill University Health Centre, Royal Victoria 
Hospital, Montréal, Quebec, Canada.
(3)Department of Medicine, McGill University, Montréal, Quebec, Canada; 
Nutrition, Metabolism and Atherosclerosis Clinic, Institut de recherches 
cliniques de Montréal, Montréal, Quebec, Canada.
(4)Faculty of Medicine, University of Toronto, Institute for Clinical Evaluative 
Sciences, Schulich Heart Centre, Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre, Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada.
(5)Department of Medicine, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British 
Columbia, Canada.
(6)Mazankowski Alberta Heart Institute, University of Alberta, Edmonton, 
Alberta, Canada.
(7)Department of Medicine, McMaster University, Hamilton, and Canadian 
Collaborative Research Network, Brampton, Ontario, Canada.
(8)Departments of Medicine and Laboratory Medicine, CHU de Québec-Université 
Laval, Québec City, Quebec, Canada.
(9)Department of Medicine, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British 
Columbia, Canada; Centre for Heart Lung Innovation, University of British 
Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.
(10)Department of Pediatrics, The Labatt Family Heart Centre, The Hospital for 
Sick Children, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(11)Department of Pediatrics, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.
(12)Department of Pediatrics, McGill University, Clinique 180, Montréal, Quebec, 
Canada.
(13)Department of Pediatrics, Université de Montréal, CHU Sainte-Justine, 
Montréal, Quebec, Canada.
(14)Departments of Medicine and Biochemistry, Schulich School of Medicine and 
Robarts Research Institute, Western University, London, Ontario, Canada.
(15)Research Institute of the McGill University Health Centre, Royal Victoria 
Hospital, Montréal, Quebec, Canada; Department of Medicine, McGill University, 
Montréal, Quebec, Canada.
(16)Department of Medicine, University of Toronto and Division of Endocrinology, 
St Michael's Hospital, Toronto Ontario, Canada.
(17)Lipidology Unit, Community Genomic Medicine Centre and ECOGENE-21, 
Department of Medicine, Université de Montréal, Saguenay, Quebec, Canada.
(18)Department of Pathology and Molecular Medicine, Department of Clinical 
Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Population Health Research Institute and 
Thrombosis and Atherosclerosis Research Institute, Hamilton Health Sciences, 
McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.
(19)Division of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Department of Medicine, University 
of Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada.
(20)Queen Elizabeth II Health Sciences Centre, Dalhousie University, Halifax, 
Nova Scotia, Canada.
(21)Nutrition, Metabolism and Atherosclerosis Clinic, Institut de recherches 
cliniques de Montréal, Montréal, Quebec, Canada; Department of Medicine, 
Division of Endocrinology, Université de Montreal, Montréal, Quebec, Canada.
(22)Department of Medicine, Section of Endocrinology and Metabolism, University 
of Manitoba, St Boniface Hospital, Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada.
(23)Schulich School of Medicine and Dentistry, Western University, London, 
Ontario, Canada.
(24)Division of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, Dalhousie University, St 
John, New Brunswick, Canada.

Familial hypercholesterolemia (FH) is the most common monogenic disorder causing 
premature atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. It affects 1 in 250 
individuals worldwide, and of the approximately 145,000 Canadians estimated to 
have FH, most are undiagnosed. Herein, we provide an update of the 2014 Canadian 
Cardiovascular Society position statement on FH addressing the need for case 
identification, prompt recognition, and treatment with statins and ezetimibe, 
and cascade family screening. We provide a new Canadian definition for FH and 
tools for clinicians to make a diagnosis. The risk of atherosclerotic 
cardiovascular disease in patients with "definite" FH is 10- to 20-fold that of 
a normolipidemic individual and initiating treatment in youth or young adulthood 
can normalize life expectancy. Target levels for low-density lipoprotein 
cholesterol are proposed and are aligned with the Canadian Cardiovascular 
Society guidelines on dyslipidemia. Recommendation for the use of inhibitors of 
proprotein convertase kexin/subtilisin type 9 are made in patients who cannot 
achieve therapeutic low-density lipoprotein cholesterol targets on maximally 
tolerated statins and ezetimibe. The writing committee used the Grading of 
Recommendations, Assessment, Development, and Evaluation (GRADE) methodology in 
the preparation of the present document, which offers guidance for practical 
evaluation and management of patients with FH. This position statement also aims 
to raise awareness of FH nationally, and to mobilize patient support, promote 
knowledge translation, and availability of treatment and health care resources 
for this under-recognized, but important medical condition.

Copyright © 2018 Canadian Cardiovascular Society. Published by Elsevier Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cjca.2018.09.005
PMID: 30527143 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


134. Lung Cancer. 2018 Dec;126:119-124. doi: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2018.10.029. Epub
2018  Nov 2.

The cost-effectiveness of the Manchester 'lung health checks', a community-based 
lung cancer low-dose CT screening pilot.

Hinde S(1), Crilly T(2), Balata H(3), Bartlett R(2), Crilly J(2), Barber P(4), 
Threlfall A(5), Tonge J(6), Booton R(3), Crosbie PA(7).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York. Electronic address: 
sebastian.hinde@york.ac.uk.
(2)Crystal Blue Consulting Ltd.
(3)Manchester Thoracic Oncology Centre, North West Lung Centre, Manchester 
University NHS Foundation Trust.
(4)Manchester Thoracic Oncology Centre, North West Lung Centre, Manchester 
University NHS Foundation Trust; Macmillan Cancer Improvement Partnership, 
Manchester.
(5)Macmillan Cancer Improvement Partnership, Manchester.
(6)Macmillan Cancer Improvement Partnership, Manchester; Manchester Health and 
Care Commissioning, Manchester.
(7)Manchester Thoracic Oncology Centre, North West Lung Centre, Manchester 
University NHS Foundation Trust; Division of Cancer Sciences, Faculty of 
Biology, Medicine and Health, University of Manchester.

BACKGROUND: Previous evaluations of low-dose CT (LDCT) lung cancer screening 
programmes have taken very different approaches in the design of the informative 
trials and the methods applied to determine cost-effectiveness. Therefore, it 
has not been possible to determine if differences in cost-effectiveness are due 
to different screening approaches or the evaluation methodology. This study 
reports the findings of an evaluation of the first round of a community-based, 
LDCT screening pilot Manchester, applying previously published methodology to 
ensure consistency.
METHODS: Using the economic evaluation method reported in the UKLS trial, 
applying Manchester specific evidence where possible, we estimate the 
cost-effectiveness of LDCT for lung cancer. Estimates of the total costs and 
quality adjusted life years (QALYs) were calculated.
RESULTS: The Manchester programme cost £663,076, diagnosed 42 patients with lung 
cancer resulting in a gain in population health of 88.13 discounted life years, 
equivalent to 65.85 QALYs. This implied an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
of £10,069/QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: We found the Manchester programme to be a cost-effective use of 
limited NHS resources. The findings suggest that further research is now needed 
not as to whether LDCT screening is cost-effective but under what conditions can 
it improve patient health by the most while remaining cost-effective.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2018.10.029
PMID: 30527175 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


135. Oral Oncol. 2018 Dec;87:104-110. doi: 10.1016/j.oraloncology.2018.10.032.
Epub  2018 Oct 30.

Cost-effectiveness of nivolumab in the treatment of head and neck cancer.

Hirschmann A(1), Lupatsch JE(2), Schwenkglenks M(1), Panje CM(3), Matter-Walstra 
K(1), Espeli V(4), Dedes KJ(5), Siano M(6); Swiss Group of Clinical Cancer 
Research (SAKK).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Pharmaceutical Medicine (ECPM), University of Basel, Basel, 
Switzerland.
(2)Institute of Pharmaceutical Medicine (ECPM), University of Basel, Basel, 
Switzerland; Swiss Group for Clinical Cancer Research (SAKK) Coordinating 
Center, Bern, Switzerland. Electronic address: judith.lupatsch@unibas.ch.
(3)Department of Radiation Oncology, Cantonal Hospital St. Gallen, St. Gallen, 
Switzerland.
(4)Departement of Medical Oncology, Oncology Institute of Southern Switzerland 
(IOSI), Bellinzona, Switzerland.
(5)Department of Gynaecology, University Hospital Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.
(6)Department of Medical Oncology/Haematology, Cantonal Hospital St. Gallen, St. 
Gallen, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: Until recently, no second-line treatment for recurrent and/or 
metastatic head and neck squamous cell cancer (r/mHNSCC) was able to improve 
overall survival (OS). Nivolumab has become a promising treatment for r/mHNSCC. 
The CheckMate-141 trial showed that nivolumab improves OS compared to 
investigator's choice (IC) (cetuximab, methotrexate, docetaxel). Treatment with 
immune checkpoint inhibitors is however expensive. The aim of this analysis was 
to assess the cost-effectiveness of nivolumab as second-line treatment for 
r/mHNSCC in Switzerland.
METHODS: Based on the CheckMate-141 trial, we constructed a Markov model 
comparing nivolumab to IC, including follow-up data up to 24 months. We assessed 
costs for treatments from the perspective of the Swiss health system with a 
60 months' time horizon. PD-L1 and p16 testing were considered in scenarios. 
Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICER) were compared to an informal 
willingness-to-pay of CHF (Swiss Francs) 100,000 per QALY gained.
RESULTS: For the base case we estimated an incremental effectiveness of 0.35 
QALYs and incremental costs of CHF 35,562 with nivolumab, resulting in an ICER 
of CHF 102,957 per QALY gained. Most influential drivers for the ICER were the 
price of nivolumab and the progressive disease state utility weights. In 45.5% 
of probabilistic sensitivity analysis simulations nivolumab was estimated below 
100,000 CHF/QALY. Reducing the price of nivolumab according to a consented 
payback by 4.75%, resulted in an ICER of CHF 98,325/QALY gained.
CONCLUSIONS: At current prices nivolumab has an ICER of around CHF 100,000 per 
QALY gained in the second line treatment of r/mHNSCC patients in Switzerland.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.oraloncology.2018.10.032
PMID: 30527224 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


136. Cancer Radiother. 2019 Feb;23(1):1-9. doi: 10.1016/j.canrad.2018.01.009.
Epub  2018 Dec 4.

[Cost of radiotherapy for bone metastases in France: A monocentric retrospective 
study].

[Article in French]

Le Fèvre C(1), Menoux I(1), Pin Y(1), Antoni D(2), Thiéry A(3), Noël G(4).

Author information:
(1)Département universitaire de radiothérapie, centre Paul-Strauss, Unicancer, 
3, rue de la Porte-de-l'Hôpital, 67065 Strasbourg cedex, France.
(2)Département universitaire de radiothérapie, centre Paul-Strauss, Unicancer, 
3, rue de la Porte-de-l'Hôpital, 67065 Strasbourg cedex, France; Laboratoire EA 
3430, fédération de médecine translationnelle de Strasbourg (FMTS), université 
de Strasbourg, 67000 Strasbourg, France.
(3)Département de santé publique, centre Paul-Strauss, Unicancer, 3, rue de la 
Porte-de-l'Hôpital, 67065 Strasbourg cedex, France.
(4)Département universitaire de radiothérapie, centre Paul-Strauss, Unicancer, 
3, rue de la Porte-de-l'Hôpital, 67065 Strasbourg cedex, France; Laboratoire EA 
3430, fédération de médecine translationnelle de Strasbourg (FMTS), université 
de Strasbourg, 67000 Strasbourg, France. Electronic address: 
gnoel@strasbourg.unicancer.fr.

PURPOSE: The cost of radiotherapy is a concern for health systems. The 
conventional non fractionated or multifractionated schemes have shown the same 
efficacy in terms of pain relief but a non fractionated treatment seems less 
expensive. However, in general practice, multifractionated treatments are still 
the majority, which represents an additional cost for society. Moreover, the use 
of stereotactic body radiotherapy becomes more democratic and offers new 
curative perspectives, but at what price?
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A monocentric retrospective study was conducted in a 
French radiotherapy department to evaluate and compare the cost of irradiation 
of uncomplicated bone metastases according to the selected radiotherapy 
regimen : 30Gy in 10 fractions, 20Gy in five fractions, 8Gy in one fraction or 
stereotactic body radiotherapy.
RESULTS: Between January 2014 and December 2015, 91 patients receiving 116 
treatments were included in the study, including 44 men (48%) and 47 women (52%) 
were 63 years old (25-88 years). Thirty-four treatments (29%) were performed by 
30Gy in 10 fractions (30Gy group), 24 treatments (21%) by 20Gy in 5 fractions 
(20Gy group), 25 treatments (22%) by 8Gy in one fraction (8Gy group) and 33 
treatments (28%) by stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT group). The cost of 
stereotactic body radiotherapy was significantly higher than that of 
three-dimensional treatments (P<0.001). If the cost of transport was added to 
this cost, stereotactic body radiotherapy remained the most expensive (P<0.001). 
The cost of the irradiation delivering 30Gy treatment was significantly higher 
than the cost of treatment with 20Gy (P=0.006) or 8Gy (P<0.001), even after 
adding the transport cost (P<0.001), with no significant difference between 20Gy 
and 8Gy (P=0.11). For the overall cost of treatment including the total cost of 
treatments, associated transport and reirradiation, stereotactic body 
radiotherapy was the most expensive treatment (P<0.001) and this cost was 
significantly higher in the 30Gy group than in the 20Gy group (P=0.012) or 8Gy 
group (P=0.001), with no significant difference between 20Gy and 8Gy (P=0.38). 
There was no significant difference in the cost of follow-up between 30Gy, 20Gy, 
8Gy and stereotactic body radiotherapy at one month (P=0.09) but at three months 
(P=0.01) and six months (P=0.0001), this cost was significantly higher after a 
three-dimensional treatment. There was no significant difference in overall cost 
including initial radiotherapy, transport and overall follow-up over 6 months 
between groups (P=0.04).
CONCLUSION: Stereotactic body radiotherapy is an efficient and curative 
irradiation technique but more expensive. It is preferred for some patients with 
a longer life expectancy in a non-palliative treatment setting. The treatment 
delivering 8Gy treatment appears to be the most cost-effective while leading to 
an equivalent efficiency to multifractionated treatments and preserving the 
quality of life of patients.

Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.canrad.2018.01.009
PMID: 30527438 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


137. Eur J Intern Med. 2018 Dec;58:22-27. doi: 10.1016/j.ejim.2018.05.028.

Chemotherapy-free and reduced intensity approaches in elderly patients with 
B-lineage acute lymphoblastic leukemia.

Chiaretti S(1), Foà R(2).

Author information:
(1)Hematology, Department of Cellular Biotechnologies and Hematology, "Sapienza" 
University, Rome, Italy. Electronic address: chiaretti@bce.uniroma1.it.
(2)Hematology, Department of Cellular Biotechnologies and Hematology, "Sapienza" 
University, Rome, Italy.

Management of older patients - defined by convention above the age of 60 years, 
but varying widely within study groups - with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) 
is still a challenge. The complete remission (CR) rate in these patients is 
lower than in other age groups and the percentage of deaths in induction or in 
CR remains high, ranging from 7 to 40%. Overall survival rates do not exceed 
30%, depending on the age group included in the different trials group and on 
the follow-up duration. These unsatisfactory results are sustained by the fact 
that pre-existing comorbidities often hamper treatment delivery and if treatment 
intensification improves the CR rates it also increases toxicity and the 
percentage of deaths. Overall, the median life expectancy is rising world-wide, 
being in the western world around/over 80 years (and increasing); in addition, 
the proportion of elderly individuals is growing progressively. This means that 
the management of these frail patients represents a true clinical unmet need. 
While in Ph+ ALL the introduction of tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKI) has 
markedly impacted on the outcome of patients of all ages, in Ph- ALL prognosis 
in the elderly still remains largely unsatisfactory. Novel strategies - mostly 
based on the use of monoclonal antibodies or of targeted strategies if druggable 
mutations can be identified - are largely needed. In the present review, we will 
discuss the past and current scenario, and provide an overview on the developing 
approaches for both Ph- and Ph+ elderly ALL, represented in particular by 
immunotherapy.

Copyright © 2018 European Federation of Internal Medicine. Published by Elsevier 
B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejim.2018.05.028
PMID: 30527919 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


138. Value Health Reg Issues. 2018 Dec;17:217-218. doi:
10.1016/j.vhri.2017.12.007.  Epub 2018 Dec 6.

Good Practices and Principles in Health Technology Assessment in Latin America.

Toro W(1), Guarin D(2).

Author information:
(1)AbbVie, Chicago, IL, USA.
(2)EMD Serono, Rockland, MA, USA. Electronic address: 
diego.guarin@emdserono.com.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vhri.2017.12.007
PMID: 30528491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


139. Urol Oncol. 2019 Mar;37(3):180.e11-180.e18. doi:
10.1016/j.urolonc.2018.11.016.  Epub 2018 Dec 6.

Effect of PD-L1 testing on the cost-effectiveness and budget impact of 
pembrolizumab for advanced urothelial carcinoma of the bladder in the United 
States.

Criss SD(1), Weaver DT(1), Sheehan DF(1), Lee RJ(2), Pandharipande PV(3), Kong 
CY(4).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Technology Assessment, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 
MA.
(2)Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA; Department of Medicine, Massachusetts 
General Hospital, Boston, MA.
(3)Institute for Technology Assessment, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 
MA; Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA; Department of Radiology, Massachusetts 
General Hospital, Boston, MA.
(4)Institute for Technology Assessment, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 
MA; Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA. Electronic address: joey@mgh-ita.org.

PURPOSE: Our purpose was to evaluate the effect of PD-L1 testing on the 
cost-effectiveness of pembrolizumab for second-line treatment of advanced 
urothelial carcinoma in the bladder from the U.S. societal perspective.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We developed a microsimulation model to compare 3 
treatment strategies: (1) treat all patients with standard-of-care chemotherapy, 
(2) treat all patients with pembrolizumab, and (3) treat patients with 
PD-L1-positive tumors at a ≥1% expression threshold with pembrolizumab, and all 
others with standard-of-care chemotherapy. Additionally, we performed a budget 
impact analysis based on the projected number of urothelial carcinoma patients 
eligible for second-line pembrolizumab treatment.
RESULTS: Treating all patients with chemotherapy resulted in a mean cost of 
$17,232 and mean effect of 0.43 quality-adjusted life-years. The PD-L1 test 
strategy was the most efficient strategy, with an incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio of $122,933/quality-adjusted life-year. Treating all patients with 
pembrolizumab resulted in an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of 
$197,383/quality-adjusted life-year compared to the PD-L1 test strategy. The 
PD-L1 test strategy would produce an incremental budget impact of $14.9 million 
in the first year of use compared to chemotherapy, increasing to $16.5 million 
in the fifth year of use. Treating all patients with pembrolizumab would produce 
an incremental budget impact of $19.6 million compared to the PD-L1 test 
strategy in its first year of use, increasing to $20.9 million by year 5.
CONCLUSIONS: Pembrolizumab was not cost-effective in either strategy based on a 
$100,000/quality-adjusted life-year willingness-to-pay threshold. Using PD-L1 
testing to select for patients who may have better associated outcomes may 
improve the affordability of pembrolizumab.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urolonc.2018.11.016
PMID: 30528699 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


140. Lancet Planet Health. 2019 Jan;3(1):e26-e39. doi:
10.1016/S2542-5196(18)30261-4.  Epub 2018 Dec 6.

The impact of air pollution on deaths, disease burden, and life expectancy 
across the states of India: the Global Burden of Disease Study 2017.

India State-Level Disease Burden Initiative Air Pollution Collaborators.

Collaborators: Balakrishnan K, Dey S, Gupta T, Dhaliwal RS, Brauer M, Cohen AJ, 
Stanaway JD, Beig G, Joshi TK, Aggarwal AN, Sabde Y, Sadhu H, Frostad J, Causey 
K, Godwin W, Shukla DK, Kumar GA, Varghese CM, Muraleedharan P, Agrawal A, 
Anjana RM, Bhansali A, Bhardwaj D, Burkart K, Cercy K, Chakma JK, Chowdhury S, 
Christopher DJ, Dutta E, Furtado M, Ghosh S, Ghoshal AG, Glenn SD, Guleria R, 
Gupta R, Jeemon P, Kant R, Kant S, Kaur T, Koul PA, Krish V, Krishna B, Larson 
SL, Madhipatla K, Mahesh PA, Mohan V, Mukhopadhyay S, Mutreja P, Naik N, Nair S, 
Nguyen G, Odell CM, Pandian JD, Prabhakaran D, Prabhakaran P, Roy A, Salvi S, 
Sambandam S, Saraf D, Sharma M, Shrivastava A, Singh V, Tandon N, Thomas NJ, 
Torre A, Xavier D, Yadav G, Singh S, Shekhar C, Vos T, Dandona R, Reddy KS, Lim 
SS, Murray CJL, Venkatesh S, Dandona L.

BACKGROUND: Air pollution is a major planetary health risk, with India estimated 
to have some of the worst levels globally. To inform action at subnational 
levels in India, we estimated the exposure to air pollution and its impact on 
deaths, disease burden, and life expectancy in every state of India in 2017.
METHODS: We estimated exposure to air pollution, including ambient particulate 
matter pollution, defined as the annual average gridded concentration of PM2.5, 
and household air pollution, defined as percentage of households using solid 
cooking fuels and the corresponding exposure to PM2.5, across the states of 
India using accessible data from multiple sources as part of the Global Burden 
of Diseases, Injuries, and Risk Factors Study (GBD) 2017. The states were 
categorised into three Socio-demographic Index (SDI) levels as calculated by GBD 
2017 on the basis of lag-distributed per-capita income, mean education in people 
aged 15 years or older, and total fertility rate in people younger than 25 
years. We estimated deaths and disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs) 
attributable to air pollution exposure, on the basis of exposure-response 
relationships from the published literature, as assessed in GBD 2017; the 
proportion of total global air pollution DALYs in India; and what the life 
expectancy would have been in each state of India if air pollution levels had 
been less than the minimum level causing health loss.
FINDINGS: The annual population-weighted mean exposure to ambient particulate 
matter PM2·5 in India was 89·9 μg/m3 (95% uncertainty interval [UI] 67·0-112·0) 
in 2017. Most states, and 76·8% of the population of India, were exposed to 
annual population-weighted mean PM2·5 greater than 40 μg/m3, which is the limit 
recommended by the National Ambient Air Quality Standards in India. Delhi had 
the highest annual population-weighted mean PM2·5 in 2017, followed by Uttar 
Pradesh, Bihar, and Haryana in north India, all with mean values greater than 
125 μg/m3. The proportion of population using solid fuels in India was 55·5% 
(54·8-56·2) in 2017, which exceeded 75% in the low SDI states of Bihar, 
Jharkhand, and Odisha. 1·24 million (1·09-1·39) deaths in India in 2017, which 
were 12·5% of the total deaths, were attributable to air pollution, including 
0·67 million (0·55-0·79) from ambient particulate matter pollution and 0·48 
million (0·39-0·58) from household air pollution. Of these deaths attributable 
to air pollution, 51·4% were in people younger than 70 years. India contributed 
18·1% of the global population but had 26·2% of the global air pollution DALYs 
in 2017. The ambient particulate matter pollution DALY rate was highest in the 
north Indian states of Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Delhi, Punjab, and Rajasthan, 
spread across the three SDI state groups, and the household air pollution DALY 
rate was highest in the low SDI states of Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan, Madhya 
Pradesh, and Assam in north and northeast India. We estimated that if the air 
pollution level in India were less than the minimum causing health loss, the 
average life expectancy in 2017 would have been higher by 1·7 years (1·6-1·9), 
with this increase exceeding 2 years in the north Indian states of Rajasthan, 
Uttar Pradesh, and Haryana.
INTERPRETATION: India has disproportionately high mortality and disease burden 
due to air pollution. This burden is generally highest in the low SDI states of 
north India. Reducing the substantial avoidable deaths and disease burden from 
this major environmental risk is dependent on rapid deployment of effective 
multisectoral policies throughout India that are commensurate with the magnitude 
of air pollution in each state.
FUNDING: Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation; and Indian Council of Medical 
Research, Department of Health Research, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, 
Government of India.

Copyright © 2019 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an Open 
Access article under the CC BY 4.0 license. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S2542-5196(18)30261-4
PMCID: PMC6358127
PMID: 30528905 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


141. Gait Posture. 2019 Feb;68:244-251. doi: 10.1016/j.gaitpost.2018.11.031. Epub
 2018 Nov 27.

Is ACL deficiency always a contraindication for medial UKA? Kinematic and 
kinetic analysis of implanted and contralateral knees.

Suter L(1), Roth A(1), Angst M(1), von Knoch F(2), Preiss S(3), List R(4), 
Ferguson S(1), Zumbrunn T(5).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Biomechanics, ETH Zürich, Switzerland.
(2)Zurich Bone and Joint Institute, Switzerland.
(3)Schulthess Klinik Zürich, Switzerland.
(4)Institute for Biomechanics, ETH Zürich, Switzerland; Schulthess Klinik 
Zürich, Switzerland.
(5)Institute for Biomechanics, ETH Zürich, Switzerland. Electronic address: 
tz@hest.ethz.ch.

BACKGROUND: Prevalence of knee osteoarthritis increases because life expectancy 
continues to rise with an active patient population. Hence, the concept of 
unicompartmental knee arthroplasty (UKA) has regained popularity as a treatment 
option for unicompartmental knee osteoarthritis. Anterior cruciate ligament 
(ACL) deficiency is widely considered as a contraindication for UKA, however, 
there are conflicting reports. If otherwise indicated, some surgeons consider 
UKA for ACL-deficient patients using a modified surgical technique, with a 
reduction of posterior tibial slope.
RESEARCH QUESTION: The purpose of this study was to evaluate outcomes in UKA 
patients with ACL deficiency in comparison to a conventional UKA group (intact 
ACL) by the measurement of knee kinematics and kinetics.
METHODS: Ten patients with conventional UKA and an intact ACL and eight patients 
with an ACL-deficient UKA and a reduced posterior tibial slope relative to the 
native knee were recruited. Three-dimensional joint kinematics of the knee were 
measured, using skin markers and an infrared optical motion capture system. 
Ground reaction forces (GRF) were measured with force plates in all three 
directions. Level walking, ramp descent and stair descent were analyzed, 
comparing implanted and contralateral native knees and the two UKA groups.
RESULTS: No significant differences in kinetics and kinematics were observed 
between conventional UKA and ACL-deficient UKA groups for any of the activities. 
However, some asymmetries in GRF between the implanted and contralateral side 
were present for the ACL-deficient group, during level walking (unloading rate) 
and stair descent (stance time).
SIGNIFICANCE: Promising outcomes of the ACL-deficient UKA group suggest that ACL 
deficiency may not always be a contraindication. Therefore, ACL-deficient UKA 
could be an alternative treatment option to total knee arthroplasty for an 
appropriate surgeon selected patient population.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gaitpost.2018.11.031
PMID: 30528963 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


142. Eur J Pharmacol. 2019 Feb 5;844:231-240. doi: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2018.12.003.
Epub  2018 Dec 7.

Antipsychotics-induced metabolic alterations: Recounting the mechanistic 
insights, therapeutic targets and pharmacological alternatives.

Singh R(1), Bansal Y(1), Medhi B(2), Kuhad A(3).

Author information:
(1)Pharmacology Research Laboratory, University Institute of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, UGC Centre of Advanced Study (UGC-CAS), Panjab University, Chandigarh 
160014, India.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and 
Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh 160012, India.
(3)Pharmacology Research Laboratory, University Institute of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, UGC Centre of Advanced Study (UGC-CAS), Panjab University, Chandigarh 
160014, India. Electronic address: anurag_pu@yahoo.com.

Atypical antipsychotics (AAPs) are the drug of choice in the management of 
mental illnesses by virtue of their advantage over typical antipsychotics i.e. 
least tendency of producing extrapyramidal motor symptoms (EPS) or 
pseudoparkinsonism. Despite the clinical efficacy, AAPs produces troublesome 
adverse effects, particularly hyperphagia, hyperglycemia, dyslipidemia weight 
gain, diabetes mellitus, insulin resistance and QT prolongation which further 
develops metabolic and cardiac complications with subsequent reduction in life 
expectancy, poor patient compliance, and sudden death. AAPs-induced weight gain 
and metabolic alterations are increasing at an alarming rate and became an 
utmost matter of concern for psychopharmacotherapy. Diverse underlying 
mechanisms have been explored such as the interaction of AAPs with 
neurotransmitter receptors, alteration in food reward anticipation behavior, 
altered expressions of hypothalamic orexigenic and anorexigenic neuropeptides, 
histamine H1 receptor-mediated hypothalamic AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) 
activation, increased blood leptin, ghrelin, pro-inflammatory cytokines. 
Antipsychotics induced imbalance in energy homeostasis, reduction in energy 
expenditure which is linked to altered expression of uncoupling proteins (UCP-1) 
in brown adipose tissue and reduced hypothalamic orexin expressions are emerging 
insights. In addition, alteration in gut-microbiota and subsequent inflammation, 
dyslipidemia, obesity, and diabetes after AAPs treatment are also associated 
with weight gain and metabolic alterations. Oral hypoglycemics and 
lipid-lowering drugs are mainly prescribed in the clinical management of weight 
gain associated with AAPs while many other pharmacological and 
nonpharmacological interventions also have been explored in different clinical 
and preclinical studies. In this review, we critically discuss the current 
scenario, mechanistic insights, biomarkers, and therapeutic alternatives for 
metabolic alterations associated with antipsychotics.

Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2018.12.003
PMID: 30529195 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


143. Cancer Treat Rev. 2019 Jan;72:56-64. doi: 10.1016/j.ctrv.2018.11.004. Epub
2018  Dec 1.

Proton therapy for treatment of intracranial benign tumors in adults: A 
systematic review.

Lesueur P(1), Calugaru V(2), Nauraye C(3), Stefan D(4), Cao K(5), Emery E(6), 
Reznik Y(7), Habrand JL(8), Tessonnier T(4), Chaikh A(9), Balosso J(4), Thariat 
J(10).

Author information:
(1)Radiation Oncology Department, Centre François Baclesse, Caen, France; 
Archade, Advanced Resource Center for Hadrontherapy in Europe, Caen, France; 
LARIA, CEA, CIMAP-GANIL, Caen, France; Radiation Oncology Department, Institut 
Curie, Paris, France; Proton Therapy Center, Institut Curie, Orsay, France; 
Normandy University, Université de Caen Basse Normandie, Caen, France. 
Electronic address: Paul.Lesueur89@gmail.com.
(2)Radiation Oncology Department, Institut Curie, Paris, France; Proton Therapy 
Center, Institut Curie, Orsay, France.
(3)Proton Therapy Center, Institut Curie, Orsay, France.
(4)Radiation Oncology Department, Centre François Baclesse, Caen, France; 
Archade, Advanced Resource Center for Hadrontherapy in Europe, Caen, France.
(5)Radiation Oncology Department, Institut Curie, Paris, France.
(6)Normandy University, Université de Caen Basse Normandie, Caen, France; 
Neurosurgery Department, CHU de Caen, France.
(7)Normandy University, Université de Caen Basse Normandie, Caen, France; 
Endocrinology Department, CHU de Caen, France.
(8)Radiation Oncology Department, Centre François Baclesse, Caen, France; 
Archade, Advanced Resource Center for Hadrontherapy in Europe, Caen, France; 
Normandy University, Université de Caen Basse Normandie, Caen, France.
(9)Laboratoire de Physique Corpusculaire, Caen, France.
(10)Radiation Oncology Department, Centre François Baclesse, Caen, France; 
Archade, Advanced Resource Center for Hadrontherapy in Europe, Caen, France; 
Normandy University, Université de Caen Basse Normandie, Caen, France; 
Laboratoire de Physique Corpusculaire, Caen, France.

INTRODUCTION: The depth-dose distribution of a proton beam, materialized by the 
Bragg peak makes it an attractive radiation modality as it reduces exposure of 
healthy tissues to radiations, compared with photon therapy Prominent 
indications, based on a long-standing experience are: intraocular melanomas, 
low-grade skull-base and spinal canal malignancies. However, many others 
potential indications are under investigations such as the benign morbid 
conditions that are compatible with an extended life-expectancy: low grade 
meningiomas, paragangliomas, pituitary adenomas, neurinomas craniopharyngioma or 
recurrent pleomorphic adenomas.
MATERIALS: Given the radiation-induced risk of secondary cancer and the 
potential neurocognitive and functional alteration with photonic radiotherapy, 
we systematically analyzed the existing clinical literature about the use of 
proton therapy as an irradiation modality for cervical or intracranial benign 
tumors. The aim of this review was to report clinical outcomes of adult patients 
with benign intracranial or cervical tumors treated with proton therapy and to 
discuss about potential advantages of proton therapy over intensity modulated 
radiotherapy or radiosurgery.
RESULTS: Twenty-four studies were included. There was no randomized studies. 
Most studies dealt with low grade meningiomas (n = 9). Studies concerning 
neurinoma (n = 4), pituitary adenoma (n = 5), paraganglioma (n = 5), or 
craniopharyngioma (n = 1) were fewer. Whatever the indication, long term local 
control was systematically higher than 90% and equivalent to series with 
conventional radiotherapy.
CONCLUSION: Proton-therapy for treatment of adult benign intracranial and 
cervical tumors is safe. Randomized or prospective cohorts with long term 
cognitive evaluations are needed to assess the real place of proton-therapy in 
the treatment of adults benign head and neck tumors.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ctrv.2018.11.004
PMID: 30530009 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


144. Ecotoxicol Environ Saf. 2019 Apr 15;170:314-323. doi: 
10.1016/j.ecoenv.2018.11.139. Epub 2018 Dec 7.

Diesel exhaust exposure intensifies inflammatory and structural changes 
associated with lung aging in mice.

Ribeiro Júnior G(1), de Souza Xavier Costa N(2), Belotti L(2), Dos Santos 
Alemany AA(2), Amato-Lourenço LF(2), da Cunha PG(3), de Oliveira Duro S(3), 
Ribeiro SP(4), Veras MM(2), Quirino Dos Santos Lopes FDT(5), Marcourakis T(3), 
Nascimento Saldiva PH(2), Poliselli Farsky SH(3), Mauad T(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of São Paulo - School of Medicine, LIM05 
São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil. Electronic address: gabriel_ribe@usp.br.
(2)Department of Pathology, University of São Paulo - School of Medicine, LIM05 
São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.
(3)Department of Clinical and Toxicological Analyses, University of São Paulo - 
School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.
(4)Department Clinical Medicine, LIM60 University of São Paulo - School of 
Medicine, São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil; Department of Pathology, Case Western 
Reserve University, Cleveland, OH, United States.
(5)Department Clinical Medicine, LIM60 University of São Paulo - School of 
Medicine, São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.

Life expectancy is increasing worldwide. Lung aging is a process marked by 
changes in multiple morphological, physiological and age-related biomarkers 
(e.g., sirtuins) and is influenced by external factors, such as air pollution. 
Hence, the elderly are considered more vulnerable to the air pollution hazards. 
We hypothesized that diesel exhaust (DE) exposure intensifies changes in lung 
inflammatory and structural parameters in aging subjects. Two- and 
fifteen-month-old mice were exposed to DE for 30 days. Lung function was 
measured using the forced oscillation method. The inflammatory profile was 
evaluated in the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) and blood, and lung volumes 
were estimated by stereology. Antioxidant enzyme activity was evaluated by 
spectrophotometry, sirtuin 1 (SIRT1), sirtuin 2 (SIRT2) and sirtuin 6 (SIRT6) 
expression was assessed by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction 
(RT-PCR), and levels of the sirtuin proteins were evaluated by 
immunohistochemical staining in lung tissues. Older mice presented decreased 
pulmonary resistance and elastance, increased macrophage infiltration and 
decreased tumor necrosis factor (TNF) and interleukin 10 (IL-10) levels in the 
BALF, reduced activities of the antioxidant enzymes glutathione peroxidase (GPx) 
and glutathione reductase (GR), and increased activity glutathione S-transferase 
(GST); increased lung volumes with decreased elastic fiber and increased airway 
collagen content. SIRT1 gene expression was decreased in older animals, but 
protein levels were increased. DE exposure increased macrophage infiltration and 
oxidative stress in the lungs of animals of both ages. SIRT6 gene expression was 
decreased by DE exposure, with increased protein levels. In older animals, DE 
affected lung structure and collagen content. Lung aging features, such as 
decreased antioxidant reserves, lower IL-10 expression, and decreased SIRT1 
levels may predispose subjects to exacerbated responses after DE exposure. Our 
data support the hypothesis that strategies designed to reduce ambient air 
pollution are an important step towards healthy aging.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ecoenv.2018.11.139
PMID: 30530184 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


145. Eur J Med Chem. 2019 Feb 1;163:394-402. doi: 10.1016/j.ejmech.2018.12.003.
Epub  2018 Dec 3.

Polycyclic maleimide-based derivatives as first dual modulators of neuronal 
calcium channels and GSK-3β for Alzheimer's disease treatment.

Bisi A(1), Arribas RL(2), Micucci M(3), Budriesi R(3), Feoli A(4), Castellano 
S(4), Belluti F(3), Gobbi S(3), de Los Rios C(2), Rampa A(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy and Biotechnology, Alma Mater Studiorum-University of 
Bologna, Via Belmeloro 6, 40126, Bologna, Italy. Electronic address: 
alessandra.bisi@unibo.it.
(2)Instituto Teofilo Hernando and Departamento de Farmacología y Terapeutica, 
Facultad de Medicina, Universidad Autonoma de Madrid, C/Arzobispo Morcillo, 4, 
28029, Madrid, Spain.
(3)Department of Pharmacy and Biotechnology, Alma Mater Studiorum-University of 
Bologna, Via Belmeloro 6, 40126, Bologna, Italy.
(4)Epigenetic Med Chem Lab, Department of Pharmacy, University of Salerno, Via 
Giovanni Paolo II 132, I-84084, Fisciano, Salerno, Italy.
(5)Department of Pharmacy and Biotechnology, Alma Mater Studiorum-University of 
Bologna, Via Belmeloro 6, 40126, Bologna, Italy. Electronic address: 
angela.rampa@unibo.it.

Current healthcare has significantly increased the average life expectancy, 
leading to a consequently greater incidence of age-related diseases, such as 
Alzheimer's disease. Following a multitarget approach, in this paper a series of 
polycyclic maleimide-based derivatives were designed and synthesized aimed at 
simultaneously modulate neuronal calcium channels and glycogen synthase kinase 
3-beta (GSK-3β), validated targets to combat Alzheimer' disease. Different 
structural modifications were performed on the polycyclic scaffold in order to 
investigate the structure-activity relationships and compound 10 emerged as a 
promising non-toxic lead compound, endowed with calcium modulating 
brain-addressed properties and significant GSK-3β inhibitory activity. Moreover, 
the easily affordable polycyclic core appears as a new appealing privileged 
structure in medicinal chemistry.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejmech.2018.12.003
PMID: 30530190 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


146. Biol Open. 2019 Jan 14;8(1):bio039859. doi: 10.1242/bio.039859.

Roles of Keber's valve and foot chamber for foot manipulation in the mussel 
Nodularia douglasiae.

Seo E(1), Seo Y(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Marine Ecosystem Dynamics, Division of Marine Life Science, 
Atmosphere and Ocean Research Institute, The University of Tokyo, Kashiwa, 
277-8564, Japan.
(2)Department of Regulatory Physiology, Dokkyo Medical University School of 
Medicine, Tochigi, 321-0293, Japan yseo@dokkyomed.ac.jp.

In order to analyse the roles of Keber's valve for foot manipulation in the 
mussel Nodularia douglasiae, the anatomy and haemolymph flow in the 
cardiovascular system were detected by magnetic resonance imaging. The 
superficial layer of the foot was covered by a dense muscle layer, which 
extended to the dorsal side and connected with the shell. This closed space, the 
foot chamber, had an inlet (anterior aorta) and an outlet (Keber's valve). At 
rest, in the beginning of the systolic phase, flows in the anterior aorta and 
the pedal artery increased, followed by the pedal and visceral sinuses. Then 
these flows ceased at the end of the systolic phase, followed by inflow to the 
ventricle in the diastolic phase; therefore, the compliance of the foot chamber 
is low enough to transfer pressure pulses to the visceral sinus. Extension of 
the foot started with relaxation of the foot muscle, so the compliance of the 
foot chamber increased. Then, Keber's valve closed so that the haemolymph filled 
the foot haemocoel. Retraction of the foot is initiated by the opening of 
Keber's valve. Judging from these results Keber's valve and the foot chamber are 
essential for circulation at rest, foot extension and retraction.This article 
has an associated First Person interview with the first author of the paper.

© 2019. Published by The Company of Biologists Ltd.

DOI: 10.1242/bio.039859
PMCID: PMC6361212
PMID: 30530808

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interestsThe authors declare no 
competing or financial interests.


147. Aging (Albany NY). 2018 Dec 7;10(12):3821-3833. doi: 10.18632/aging.101675.

Caloric restriction rescues yeast cells from alpha-synuclein toxicity through 
autophagic control of proteostasis.

Sampaio-Marques B(#)(1)(2), Pereira H(#)(1)(2), Santos AR(1)(2), Teixeira 
A(1)(2), Ludovico P(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Life and Health Sciences Research Institute (ICVS), School of Medicine, 
University of Minho, Braga, Portugal.
(2)ICVS/3B's - PT Government Associate Laboratory, Braga/Guimarães, University 
of Minho, Braga, Portugal.
(#)Contributed equally

α-Synuclein (SNCA) is a presynaptic protein that is associated with the 
pathophysiology of synucleinopathies, including Parkinson's disease. SNCA is a 
naturally aggregation-prone protein, which may be degraded by the 
ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) and by lysosomal degradation pathways. Besides 
being a target of the proteolytic systems, SNCA can also alter the function of 
these pathways further, contributing to the progression of neurodegeneration. 
Deterioration of UPS and autophagy activities with aging further aggravates this 
toxic cycle. Caloric restriction (CR) is still the most effective non-genetic 
intervention promoting lifespan extension. It is known that CR-mediated lifespan 
extension is linked to the regulation of proteolytic systems, but the mechanisms 
underlying CR rescue of SNCA toxicity remain poorly understood. This study shows 
that CR balances UPS and autophagy activities during aging. CR enhances UPS 
activity, reversing the decline of the UPS activity promoted by SNCA, and keeps 
autophagy at homeostatic levels. Maintenance of autophagy at homeostatic levels 
appears to be relevant for UPS activity and for the mechanism underlying rescue 
of cells from SNCA-mediated toxicity by CR.

DOI: 10.18632/aging.101675
PMCID: PMC6326672
PMID: 30530923 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST: The authors report no 
conflicts of interest in this work.


148. Gac Med Mex. 2018;154(6):665-670. doi: 10.24875/GMM.18004369.

[Mortalidad por cáncer mamario, prostático y cervicouterino, años perdidos y 
costos de los programas. México, 2013 a 2016].

[Article in Spanish; Abstract available in Spanish from the publisher]

Navarrete-Valero C(1), Navarrete-Vázquez C(1).

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Seguridad y Servicios Sociales de los Trabajadores del Estado, 
Estado de México, México.

INTRODUCTION: In Mexico, large expenditure is made on resources for cervical and 
breast cancer early detection, but the Ministry of Health and the Mexican 
Institute of Social Security do not have a program for the detection of prostate 
cancer.
OBJECTIVE: To compare breast, cervical and prostate cancer mortality, as well as 
years lost in Mexico from 2013 to 2016 versus the cost of programs.
METHOD: Overall mortality figures were taken from the number of deaths for each 
