Canada/Department of Social and Preventative Medicine, Université de Montréal, 
Montreal, QC, Canada/Centre de Recherche du Centre Hospitalier de l'Université 
de Montréal (CRCHUM), Montréal, QC, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Recent progress in multiple sclerosis (MS) management has 
contributed to a greater life expectancy in persons with MS. Ageing with MS 
comes with unique challenges and bears the potential to greatly affect quality 
of life and socioeconomic burden.
OBJECTIVES: To compare frailty in ageing persons with multiple sclerosis (pwMS) 
and controls; to correlate frailty with MS clinical characteristics.
METHODS: PwMS and controls over 50 years old were recruited in a cross-sectional 
study. Two validated frailty measures were assessed: the frailty index and the 
Fried's phenotype. Several multiple linear regressions accounting for 
demographic and clinical characteristics were performed.
RESULTS: Eighty pwMS (57 females, mean age 58.5 ± 6 years old) and 37 controls 
(24 females, mean age 61 ± 6.5 years old) were recruited. Multivariable analysis 
identified significantly higher frailty index in pwMS (0.21 ± 0.12 vs 
0.11 ± 0.08, p < 0.0001). Similarly, according to Fried's phenotype, a 
significantly higher percentage of pwMS were frail compared to controls (28% vs 
8%). In pwMS, frailty index was independently associated with expanded 
disability status scale (EDSS), comorbidities, education level and disease 
duration.
CONCLUSION: Our results suggest that frailty can be routinely assessed in pwMS. 
Increased frailty in MS patients suggests that, along with MS therapeutics, a 
tailored multidisciplinary approach of ageing pwMS is needed.

DOI: 10.1177/1352458520923945
PMID: 32458728 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


414. JAMA Cardiol. 2020 Aug 1;5(8):958-961. doi: 10.1001/jamacardio.2020.1271.

The Clinical Challenge of Clonal Hematopoiesis, a Newly Recognized 
Cardiovascular Risk Factor.

Sidlow R(1), Lin AE(2), Gupta D(1), Bolton KL(1), Steensma DP(3), Levine RL(1), 
Ebert BL(3), Libby P(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, Weill Cornell 
Medical College, New York, New York.
(2)Division of Cardiovascular Medicine, Department of Medicine, Brigham and 
Women's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts.
(3)Department of Medical Oncology, Dana Farber Cancer Institute, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, Massachusetts.

IMPORTANCE: Despite current standards of cardiovascular care, a considerable 
residual burden of risk remains in both primary and secondary prevention. Clonal 
hematopoiesis of indeterminate potential (CHIP) has recently emerged as a 
common, potent, age-associated, independent risk factor for myocardial 
infarction, stroke, heart failure events, and survival following percutaneous 
aortic valve intervention. The presence of CHIP results from the acquisition of 
somatic mutations in a small number of leukemia driver genes found in bone 
marrow stem cells, leading to the expansion of leukocytes clones in peripheral 
blood. The association between CHIP and cardiovascular disease likely involves 
activation of the inflammasome pathway. More common DNA sequencing identifies 
individuals with CHIP who then seek advice regarding management of their 
cardiovascular risk.
OBSERVATIONS: Using clinical vignettes based on real encounters, we highlight 
some of the diverse presentations of CHIP, ranging from incidental 
identification to that detected during cancer care, that have brought patients 
to the attention of cardiovascular practitioners. We illustrate how we have 
applied a consensus-based approach to the evaluation and management of 
cardiovascular risk in specific patients with CHIP. Since we currently lack 
evidence to guide the management of these individuals, we must rely on expert 
opinion while awaiting data to furnish a firmer foundation for our 
recommendations.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: These vignettes illustrate that the management of 
CHIP should involve an individualized plan based on features such as 
comorbidities, life expectancy, and other traditional cardiovascular risk 
factors. Because individuals with CHIP will increasingly seek advice from 
cardiovascular specialists regarding management, these examples provide a 
template for approaches based on a multidisciplinary perspective. The current 
need for reliance on expert opinion illustrates a great need for further 
investigation into the management of this newly recognized contributor to 
residual cardiovascular risk, both in patients who are apparently well and those 
with established cardiovascular or malignant disease.

DOI: 10.1001/jamacardio.2020.1271
PMID: 32459358 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


415. Obstet Gynecol. 2020 Jun;135(6):1313-1326. doi:
10.1097/AOG.0000000000003869.

Elagolix Treatment for Up to 12 Months in Women With Heavy Menstrual Bleeding 
and Uterine Leiomyomas.

Simon JA(1), Al-Hendy A, Archer DF, Barnhart KT, Bradley LD, Carr BR, Dayspring 
T, Feinberg EC, Gillispie V, Hurtado S, Kim J, Liu R, Owens CD, 
Muneyyirci-Delale O, Wang A, Watts NB, Schlaff WD.

Author information:
(1)George Washington University, IntimMedicine Specialists, Washington, DC; 
University of Illinois at Chicago, Chicago, Illinois; Eastern Virginia Medical 
School, Norfolk, Virginia; Perleman School of Medicine at the University of 
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, Ohio; 
University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, Texas; Attia Medical, 
San Diego, California; Northwestern University, Chicago, Illinois; Ochsner 
Health System, New Orleans, Louisiana; University of Texas Health Science Center 
at Houston, Houston, Texas; Columbia University, New York, New York; AbbVie Inc, 
North Chicago, Illinois; SUNY Downstate Health Science University, Brooklyn, New 
York; Mercy Health, Cincinnati, Ohio; and Thomas Jefferson University, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the safety and efficacy of elagolix, an oral 
gonadotropin-releasing hormone antagonist, with hormonal add-back therapy for up 
to 12 months in women with heavy menstrual bleeding associated with uterine 
leiomyomas.
METHODS: Elaris UF-EXTEND was a phase 3 extension study that evaluated an 
additional 6 months (up to 12 months total) of elagolix 300 mg twice daily with 
hormonal add-back therapy (estradiol 1 mg and norethindrone acetate 0.5 mg once 
daily) in women who completed an initial 6 months of the same treatment in one 
of two preceding phase 3 studies. The primary endpoint was the percentage of 
women with both less than 80 mL menstrual blood loss during final month and a 
50% or greater reduction in menstrual blood loss from baseline to final month. 
Safety evaluations included adverse events and bone mineral density changes. The 
planned sample size of UF-EXTEND was based on estimated rollover and 
discontinuation rates in the two preceding studies.
RESULTS: From September 2016 to March 2019, 433 women were enrolled in 
UF-EXTEND. Of these women, 218 received up to 12 months of elagolix with 
add-back therapy; the mean±SD age of this group was 42.4±5.4 years and 67.3% 
were black. The percentage of women who met the primary endpoint in this 
elagolix with add-back group was 87.9% (95% CI [83.4-92.3]). The most frequently 
reported adverse events with up to 12 months of elagolix plus add-back therapy 
were hot flush (6.9%), night sweats (3.2%), headache (5.5%), and nausea (4.1%). 
Mean percent decreases in bone mineral density from baseline to extension month 
6 were significantly less with elagolix plus add-back therapy than with elagolix 
alone {between-group difference in lumbar spine: -3.3 (95% CI [-4.1 to -2.5])}.
CONCLUSION: Up to 12 months of elagolix with add-back therapy provided sustained 
reduction in menstrual blood loss in women with uterine leiomyomas, with the 
addition of add-back therapy attenuating the hypoestrogenic effects of elagolix 
alone. No new or unexpected safety concerns were associated with an additional 6 
months of elagolix with addback therapy.
CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT02925494.
FUNDING SOURCE: AbbVie Inc funded this study.

DOI: 10.1097/AOG.0000000000003869
PMCID: PMC7253187
PMID: 32459423 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


416. BMC Health Serv Res. 2020 May 27;20(1):478. doi: 10.1186/s12913-020-05333-z.

Protocol for the economic evaluation of the InTENSE program for rehabilitation 
of chronic upper limb spasticity.

Milte R(1), Ratcliffe J(2), Ada L(3), English C(4), Crotty M(5)(6), Lannin 
NA(7)(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Caring Futures Institute, Flinders University, Adelaide, South Australia, 
5001, Australia. rachel.milte@flinders.edu.au.
(2)Caring Futures Institute, Flinders University, Adelaide, South Australia, 
5001, Australia.
(3)Discipline of Physiotherapy, The University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia.
(4)School of Health Sciences and Priority Research Centre for Stroke and Brain 
Injury, University of Newcastle, Newcastle, Australia.
(5)College of Medicine and Public Health, Flinders University, Adelaide, 
Australia.
(6)Rehabilitation Services, Flinders Medical Centre, Adelaide, Australia.
(7)Department of Neurosciences, Central Clinical School, Monash University, 
Melbourne, Australia.
(8)Alfred Health, Melbourne, Australia.
(9)John Walsh Centre for Rehabilitation Research, The University of Sydney, 
Sydney, Australia.

BACKGROUND: Assessment of the costs of care associated with chronic upper-limb 
spasticity following stroke in Australia and the potential benefits of adding 
intensive upper limb rehabilitation to botulinum toxin-A are key objectives of 
the InTENSE randomised controlled trial.
METHODS: Recruitment for the trial has been completed. A total of 139 
participants from 6 stroke units across 3 Australian states are participating in 
the trial. A cost utility analysis will be undertaken to compare resource use 
and costs over 12 months with health-related quality of life outcomes associated 
with the intervention relative to a usual care comparator. A cost effectiveness 
analysis with the main clinical measure of outcome, Goal Attainment Scaling, 
will also be undertaken. The primary outcome measure for the cost utility 
analysis will be the incremental cost effectiveness ratio (ICER) generated from 
the incremental cost of the intervention as compared to the incremental benefit, 
as measured in quality adjusted life years (QALYs) gained. The utility scores 
generated from the EQ-5D three level instrument (EQ-5D-3 L) measured at 
baseline, 3 months and 12 months will be utilised to calculate the incremental 
Quality Adjusted Life Year (QALY) gains for the intervention relative to usual 
care using area-under the curve methods.
DISCUSSION: The results of the economic evaluation will provide evidence of the 
total costs of care for patients with chronic upper limb spasticity following 
stroke. It will also provide evidence for the cost-effectiveness of adding 
evidence-based movement therapy to botulinum toxin-A as a treatment, providing 
important information for health system decision makers tasked with the planning 
and provision of services.

DOI: 10.1186/s12913-020-05333-z
PMCID: PMC7254740
PMID: 32460773 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare they have no competing 
interests.


417. Surgery. 2021 Jan;169(1):7-13. doi: 10.1016/j.surg.2020.03.028. Epub 2020
May  24.

Thyroidectomy for euthyroid patients with Hashimoto thyroiditis and persisting 
symptoms: A cost-effectiveness analysis.

Memeh K(1), Ruhle B(2), Vaghaiwalla T(2), Kaplan E(2), Keutgen X(2), Angelos 
P(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery. Section of Endocrine Surgery, The University of 
Chicago Medicine. Chicago, IL. Electronic address: kelvinmemeh@hotmail.com.
(2)Department of Surgery. Section of Endocrine Surgery, The University of 
Chicago Medicine. Chicago, IL.

BACKGROUND: Despite thyroid hormone replacement, some euthyroid patients with 
Hashimoto thyroiditis will continue to experience persistent symptoms that 
reduce their quality of life. Recent studies indicate that total thyroidectomy 
is superior to medical therapy alone in improving these symptoms. However, there 
is a high complication rate after total thyroidectomy in patients with Hashimoto 
thyroiditis. This study evaluates the cost-effectiveness of total thyroidectomy 
for euthyroid patients who have Hashimoto thyroiditis with persistent symptoms.
METHODS: We utilized a Markov model to compare total thyroidectomy and medical 
therapy alone over the lifetime of the cohort. Costs, probabilities, and utility 
parameters were derived from literature and Medicare cost data. A 
willingness-to-pay threshold of $100,000/quality-adjusted life years was used. 
We performed sensitivity analyses to ascertain model uncertainty.
RESULTS: On average, medical therapy alone costs $12,845, produced 16.9 
quality-adjusted life years, and was dominated. Total thyroidectomy costs $1,490 
less and produced 1.4 more quality-adjusted life years. Probabilistic 
sensitivity analysis confirmed total thyroidectomy as the optimal strategy in 
89% of cases. Medical therapy alone will become cost-effective if the cost of 
uncomplicated thyroidectomy increases by 25%, if the probability of permanent 
complication after total thyroidectomy increases 12-fold, or if there is no gain 
in quality of life after thyroidectomy.
CONCLUSION: Total thyroidectomy is more cost-effective than medical therapy 
alone for the management of euthyroid patients who have Hashimoto thyroiditis 
with persistent symptoms.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.surg.2020.03.028
PMID: 32460999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


418. Ageing Res Rev. 2020 Sep;62:101079. doi: 10.1016/j.arr.2020.101079. Epub
2020  May 24.

Nutrition and the ageing brain: Moving towards clinical applications.

Flanagan E(1), Lamport D(2), Brennan L(3), Burnet P(4), Calabrese V(5), Cunnane 
SC(6), de Wilde MC(7), Dye L(8), Farrimond JA(9), Emerson Lombardo N(10), 
Hartmann T(11), Hartung T(12), Kalliomäki M(13), Kuhnle GG(14), La Fata G(15), 
Sala-Vila A(16), Samieri C(17), Smith AD(18), Spencer JPE(14), Thuret S(19), 
Tuohy K(20), Turroni S(21), Vanden Berghe W(22), Verkuijl M(23), Verzijden 
K(24), Yannakoulia M(25), Geurts L(26), Vauzour D(27).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutrition and Preventive Medicine, Norwich Medical School, 
University of East Anglia, Norwich, UK.
(2)School of Psychology and Clinical Language Sciences, University of Reading, 
Earley Gate, Whiteknights, Reading, UK.
(3)UCD Institute of Food and Health, UCD School of Agriculture and Food Science, 
University College Dublin, Dublin, Ireland.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(5)Department of Biomedical and Biotechnological Sciences, University of 
Catania, Catania, Italy.
(6)Research Center on Aging, Centre Intégré Universitaire de Santé et de 
Services Sociaux de l'Estrie (CIUSSS) de L'Estrie-Centre hospitalier 
Universitaire de Sherbrooke (CHUS), Sherbrooke, QC, Canada; Department of 
Pharmacology and Physiology, Université de Sherbrooke, Sherbrooke, QC, Canada; 
Department of Medicine, Université de Sherbrooke, Sherbrooke, QC, Canada.
(7)Formerly at Danone Nutricia Research, Nutricia Advanced Medical Nutrition, 
Utrecht, the Netherlands.
(8)Currently at Emerging Sciences Research, Reckitt Benckiser, Nijmegen, the 
Netherlands; Human Appetite Research Unit, School of Psychology, University of 
Leeds, Leeds, UK.
(9)Lucozade Ribena Suntory Ltd., Uxbridge, UK.
(10)Dept. of Neurology, Boston University School of Medicine and Boston 
University Alzheimer's Disease Center, USA.
(11)German Institute for Dementia Prevention (DIDP), Medical Faculty, and 
Department of Experimental Neurology, Saarland University, Homburg, Germany.
(12)Centre for Alternative to Animal Testing (CAAT), Johns Hopkins University, 
Baltimore, USA; University of Konstanz, CAAT-Europe, Konstanz, Germany.
(13)Department of Pediatrics, University of Turku, Finland.
(14)Department of Food and Nutritional Sciences, University of Reading, Reading, 
UK.
(15)DSM Nutritional Products Ltd., Kaiseraugst, Switzerland.
(16)Barcelonaβeta Brain Research Center (BBRC), Pasqual Maragall Foundation, 
Barcelona, Spain; Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de Fisiopatología de 
Obesidad y Nutrición (CIBEROBN), Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Madrid, Spain.
(17)INSERM, UMR 1219, Bordeaux Population Health Research Center, University of 
Bordeaux, Bordeaux, France.
(18)Oxford Project to Investigate Memory and Aging, University of Oxford, UK.
(19)Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and Neuroscience, King's College London, 
The Maurice Wohl Clinical Neuroscience Institute, London, UK.
(20)Department of Food Quality and Nutrition, Research and Innovation Centre, 
Fondazione Edmund Mach, San Michele all'Adige, Trento, Italy.
(21)Unit of Microbial Ecology of Health, Department of Pharmacy and 
Biotechnology, University of Bologna, Bologna, Italy.
(22)PPES, Department Biomedical Sciences, University Antwerp, Campus Drie Eiken, 
Antwerp, Belgium.
(23)Danone Nutricia Research, Nutricia Advanced Medical Nutrition, Utrecht, the 
Netherlands.
(24)Attorney-at-law at Axon Lawyers, the Netherlands.
(25)Department of Nutrition and Dietetics, Harokopio University, Athens, Greece.
(26)International Life Sciences Institute Europe (ILSI Europe) a.i.s.b.l., 
Brussels, Belgium.
(27)Department of Nutrition and Preventive Medicine, Norwich Medical School, 
University of East Anglia, Norwich, UK. Electronic address: D.Vauzour@uea.ac.uk.

The global increases in life expectancy and population have resulted in a 
growing ageing population and with it a growing number of people living with 
age-related neurodegenerative conditions and dementia, shifting focus towards 
methods of prevention, with lifestyle approaches such as nutrition representing 
a promising avenue for further development. This overview summarises the main 
themes discussed during the 3rd Symposium on "Nutrition for the Ageing Brain: 
Moving Towards Clinical Applications" held in Madrid in August 2018, enlarged 
with the current state of knowledge on how nutrition influences healthy ageing 
and gives recommendations regarding how the critical field of nutrition and 
neurodegeneration research should move forward into the future. Specific 
nutrients are discussed as well as the impact of multi-nutrient and whole diet 
approaches, showing particular promise to combatting the growing burden of 
age-related cognitive decline. The emergence of new avenues for exploring the 
role of diet in healthy ageing, such as the impact of the gut microbiome and 
development of new techniques (imaging measures of brain metabolism, 
metabolomics, biomarkers) are enabling researchers to approach finding answers 
to these questions. But the translation of these findings into clinical and 
public health contexts remains an obstacle due to significant shortcomings in 
nutrition research or pressure on the scientific community to communicate 
recommendations to the general public in a convincing and accessible way. Some 
promising programs exist but further investigation to improve our understanding 
of the mechanisms by which nutrition can improve brain health across the human 
lifespan is still required.

Copyright © 2020 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arr.2020.101079
PMID: 32461136 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


419. Endocr J. 2020 Sep 28;67(9):949-956. doi: 10.1507/endocrj.EJ20-0152. Epub
2020  May 27.

Salvage surgery for structural local recurrence of papillary thyroid cancer: 
recurrence patterns and surgical outcome.

Otsuki N(1), Shimoda H(1), Morita N(1), Furukawa T(1), Teshima M(1), Shinomiya 
H(1), Nibu KI(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, Kobe University Graduate 
School of Medicine, 7-5-1, Kusunoki-Cho, Chuo-Ku, Kobe 650-0017, Japan.

To clarify the patterns of the recurrence and to assess the oncological and 
functional outcomes after salvage surgery for the patients with structural local 
recurrence of papillary thyroid cancer (PTC), twenty-five patients who underwent 
salvage surgery for structural local recurrence of PTC were retrospectively 
reviewed. Structural recurrences were observed in the tracheal lumen in 5 
patients, intraluminal or intramuscular esophagus in 5 patients, trachea, and 
cricoid cartilage in 9 patients, cricoid and thyroid cartilage in 2 patients, 
intra-lumen of the larynx in 1 patient and soft tissue around thyroid in 3 
patients, respectively. Although all local disease was resected with 
macroscopically negative margin, 10 patients diagnosed as microscopically 
positive margin. Major surgical complications occurred in 6 patients, including 
common carotid artery injury (n = 1), unintentional pharyngeal or esophageal 
injury (n = 2), recurrent laryngeal nerve paralysis (n = 2), and pharyngeal 
fistula resulting in common carotid artery rupture (n = 1), and were 
successfully managed. During the follow-up periods, 6 patients were alive 
without disease, 15 patients survived with distant metastases and/or 
locoregional recurrence, and 4 patients died of the disease. While 
tracheocutaneous fistula remained in 7 patients, the vocal function was 
preserved in all patients but one who underwent total laryngectomy. Normal oral 
intake was retained in all patients. In conclusion, although salvage surgery for 
structural recurrence of PTC has a high risk of complications, it may be 
worthwhile when macroscopic curative resection is available. The decision should 
be made considering various factors including curability, risk of surgical 
procedure, functional outcome, and life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1507/endocrj.EJ20-0152
PMID: 32461508 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


420. Iran J Public Health. 2020 Feb;49(2):294-303.

Poverty, Income, and Unemployment as Determinants of Life Expectancy: Empirical 
Evidence from Panel Data of Thirteen Malaysian States.

Tafran K(1), Tumin M(1), Osman AF(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Administrative Studies and Politics, Faculty of Economics and 
Administration, University of Malaya, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
(2)Department of Applied Statistics, Faculty of Economics and Administration, 
University of Malaya, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.

BACKGROUND: The primary indicator of public health, which all nations aim to 
prolong, is life expectancy at birth. Uncovering its socioeconomic determinants 
is key to extending life expectancy. This study examined the determinants of 
life expectancy in Malaysia.
METHODS: This observational study employs secondary data from various official 
sources of 12 states and one federal territory in Malaysia (2002-2014). Panel 
data of 78 observations (13 cross-sections at six points in time) were used in 
multivariate, fixed-effect, regressions to estimate the effects of socioeconomic 
variables on life expectancy at birth for male, female and both-gender.
RESULTS: Poverty and income significantly determine female, male, and total life 
expectancies. Unemployment significantly determines female and total life 
expectancies, but not male. Income inequality and public spending on health (as 
a percentage of total health spending) do not significantly determine life 
expectancy. The coefficients of the multivariate regressions suggest that a 1% 
reduction in poverty, 1% reduction in unemployment, and around USD 23.20 
increase in household monthly income prolong total life expectancy at birth by 
17.9, 72.0, and 16.3 d, respectively. The magnitudes of the effects of the 
socioeconomic variables on life expectancy vary somewhat by gender.
CONCLUSION: Life expectancy in Malaysia is higher than the world average and 
higher than that in some developing countries in the region. However, it is far 
lower than the advanced world. Reducing poverty and unemployment and increasing 
income are three effective channels to enhance longevity.

Copyright © Iranian Public Health Association & Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences.

PMCID: PMC7231709
PMID: 32461937

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interests The authors declare that 
there is no conflict of interests.421. Anthropol Anz. 2020 May 27;77(5):405-413. doi: 10.1127/anthranz/2020/1182.

Decrease of external skeletal robustness (Frame Index) between two cohorts of 
school children living in Puerto Madryn, Argentina at the beginning of the 
21(st) century.

Navazo B(1), Oyhenart E(1), Dahinten S(2)(3), Mumm R(4), Scheffler C(4).

Author information:
(1)Laboratorio de Investigaciones en Ontogenia y Adaptación (LINOA). Facultad de 
Ciencias Naturales y Museo (FCNyM), Universidad Nacional de La Plata (UNLP). 
Argentina.
(2)Instituto de Diversidad y Evolución Austral (IDEAus), CENPAT-CONICET.
(3)Facultad de Ciencias Naturales. Universidad Nacional de la Patagonia San Juan 
Bosco (UNPSJB), sede Puerto Madryn. Argentina.
(4)University of Potsdam, Institute of Biochemistry and Biology, Human Biology, 
Potsdam, Germany.

Background: It has been shown that modern life style with reduced physical 
activity can lead to lower bone accumulation. Also a decline trend in external 
skeletal robustness in children and young adolescents, measured by the Frame 
Index (FI), seems to have a parallel trend with the increase in overweight and 
obesity. Based on these findings we estimate that likely, the FI should be 
changed after a decade in the Argentinean population as well as in others 
population of the world. Thereby, the aim of the present study was to describe, 
using the FI, the pattern of external skeletal robustness in school children 
aged 6-14 years from two cohorts of Argentina (Puerto Madryn, Chubut) and to 
compare them with the European reference (Czech Republic, Germany, Poland and 
Russia). Methods: Elbow breadth and height of Puerto Madryn school children were 
collected in two cross-sectional studies conducted between 2001-2006 (cohort 1 = 
C1) and 2014-2016 (cohort 2 = C2). Percentiles (P) values, for males and 
females, from C1 and C2 were calculated combining the LMS-method and its 
extension. A t-test has been used to compare, by age and sex, the FI values 
between the Argentinean cohorts and the European reference (ER). Then, in order 
to know the percentage of the variation of the percentiles values between 
cohorts, as well as with ER, percent differences between means (PDM%) were 
employed. Results: FI from Argentinean cohorts differed significantly from ER. 
Even more, C2 was not only smaller than ER, but also than C1. In males, C1-C2 
showed significant differences at 6-8, 11 and 12 years and in females at all 
ages. Then, respect to ER each Argentinean cohort showed significant differences 
in males of C1 at 6, 12-14 years and in females at 6 and 11-14 years; and of C2, 
in both sexes, from 6 to 14 years. The PDM% values for elbow breadth of male 
were negative in ER-C1 in all percentiles analyzed; in ER-C2 positive (P3 and 
P50) and negative (P97) and C1-C2 recorded positive values. In females, elbow 
breadth showed negative values for ER-C1 (P50 and P97), and positive for the 
remaining values. Finally, height registered, in both sexes, negative values in 
ER-C1 (except P97 in females), ER-C2 and C1-C2. Conclusions: After ten years of 
the first study carried on in Puerto Madryn, school children show a negative 
trend in the external skeletal robustness. Additionally, the children of both 
Argentinean cohorts have lower values compared to the European reference, and 
mainly the actual cohort. This situation would be explained, in part, by the 
progressive increase over time of overweight and obesity as consequence, among 
others, of the change in the quantity and/or quality of the food that children 
have access to and with the physical activity they do at school and outside.

DOI: 10.1127/anthranz/2020/1182
PMID: 32462172 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


422. Br Med Bull. 2020 Jul 9;134(1):63-72. doi: 10.1093/bmb/ldaa008.

Health inequalities are worsening in the North East of England.

Corris V(1), Dormer E(2), Brown A(1), Whitty P(1)(3), Collingwood P(1), Bambra 
C(3)(4), Newton JL(3)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)NEQOS, North East Quality Observatory Service, 1st Floor, Ridley House, Henry 
Street, Gosforth, Newcastle upon Tyne NE3 1DQ, UK.
(2)School of Economics, Nottingham University, Nottingham NG7 2RD, UK.
(3)NIHR Applied Research Collaborative North East and North Cumbria, Cumbria, 
Northumberland and Tyne and Wear NHS Foundation Trust, The Clocktower Building, 
St Nicholas Hospital, Gosforth, Newcastle NE3 3XT, UK.
(4)Population Health Sciences Institute, Faculty of Medical Sciences, Newcastle 
University, Sir James Spence Building, Royal Victoria Infirmary, Newcastle upon 
Tyne NE1 4LP, UK.
(5)AHSN NENC, Academic Health Science Network for North East North Cumbria, Room 
2.13, Biomedical Research Building, Campus for Ageing and Vitality, Nuns' Moor 
Road, Newcastle upon Tyne NE4 5PL, UK.

BACKGROUND: The North of England, particularly the North East (NE), has worse 
health (e.g. 2 years lower life expectancy) and higher health inequalities 
compared to the rest of England.
SOURCES OF DATA: We explore this over time drawing on publicly available data.
AREAS OF AGREEMENT AND CONTROVERSY: Whilst overall health is improving, 
within-regional health inequalities are getting worse and the gap between the NE 
and other regions (particularly the South of England) is worsening. The gap in 
life expectancy is widening with substantial variation between deprived and 
affluent areas within the NE. Those living in the NE are more likely to have a 
shorter lifespan and to spend a larger proportion of their shorter lives in poor 
health, as well as being more likely to die prematurely from preventable 
diseases.
GROWING POINTS: We highlight wide, and in some cases increasing, inequalities in 
health outcomes between the NE and the rest of England. This health disadvantage 
and the north-south health divide are recognized; despite this, the situation 
appears to be worsening over the time.
AREAS TIMELY FOR DEVELOPING RESEARCH: Research to understand and reduce health 
inequalities is needed particularly in the NE of England where reductions could 
have enhanced the impact.

© The Author(s) 2020. Published by Oxford University Press.

DOI: 10.1093/bmb/ldaa008
PMCID: PMC7350410
PMID: 32462181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


423. Fortschr Neurol Psychiatr. 2021 Jan;89(1-02):23-28. doi:
10.1055/a-1158-9281.  Epub 2020 May 27.

[New Therapeutic Options for the Individualised Titration of Levodopa].

[Article in German; Abstract available in German from the publisher]

Jost WH(1), Ebersbach G(2), Kassubek J(3), Klebe S(4), Tönges L(5).

Author information:
(1)Parkinson-Klinik Ortenau, Wolfach.
(2)Neurologisches Fachkrankenhaus für Bewegungsstörungen / Parkinson, 
Beelitz-Heilstätten.
(3)Neurologische Universitätsklinik Ulm, RKU.
(4)Klinik für Neurologie, Universitätsklinik Essen.
(5)Neurologische Klinik der Ruhr-Universität Bochum, St. Josef-Hospital, Bochum.

Levodopa is the most effective medication in the treatment of Parkinson's 
disease. In the course of the disease the storage facility of dopaminergic 
neurones deteriorates, so that the duration of the half-life period likewise 
converges. This results in fluctuations in performance, and also in dyskinesias 
as a further consequence of the narrowing therapeutic window. Therapeutically, 
this in turn leads to further fractioning of the levodopa dosage and a reduction 
of single-dose levels. There is, however, only limited scope for doing this with 
the conventional levodopa formulations. For this reason, the introduction of 
water-soluble microtablets à 5 / 1.25 mg levodopa / carbidopa can be regarded as 
a beneficial extension permitting for fine titration of the dopaminergic 
stimulation. Here we present this new therapeutic principle, the available data 
and concepts for clinical use.

Publisher: L-Dopa ist das wirksamste Medikament zur Therapie des idiopathischen 
Parkinson-Syndroms. Im Verlauf der Erkrankung lässt die Speicherfähigkeit 
dopaminerger Neurone nach, weshalb sich die Wirkdauer der Halbwertszeit 
angleicht. Daraus resultieren Wirkfluktuationen, und als weitere Konsequenz des 
engen therapeutischen Fensters treten Dyskinesien auf. Therapeutisch wird die 
L-Dopa-Gabe weiter fraktioniert und die Einzeldosis reduziert. Mit den 
herkömmlichen L-Dopa-Formulierungen ist dies nur sehr beschränkt möglich. 
Deshalb darf die Einführung von wasserlöslichen Mikrotabletten à 5 / 1,25 mg 
L-Dopa/Carbidopa als hilfreiche Erweiterung angesehen werden, die eine 
Feintitrierung der dopaminergen Stimulation erlaubt. Wir stellen dieses neue 
Therapieprinzip, die vorliegenden Daten sowie Konzepte der klinischen Umsetzung 
dar.

Thieme. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1055/a-1158-9281
PMID: 32462651 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Der Expertenworkshop fand am 12. Dezember 2019 
in Frankfurt mit freundlicher Unterstützung der Desitin Arzneimittel GmbH statt. 
Die Teilnehmer des Workshops erhielten finanzielle Unterstützung durch die 
Desitin Arzneimittel GmbH, Hamburg.


424. J Med Econ. 2020 Sep;23(9):952-960. doi: 10.1080/13696998.2020.1775620. Epub
 2020 Jun 22.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of pembrolizumab monotherapy versus chemotherapy for 
previously untreated advanced non-small cell lung cancer.

Aziz MIA(1), Tan LE(1), Tan WHG(1), Toh CK(2), Loke LPY(1), Pearce F(1), Ng 
K(1).

Author information:
(1)Agency for Care Effectiveness, Ministry of Health, Singapore, Singapore.
(2)Division of Medical Oncology, National Cancer Centre, Singapore, Singapore.

Objective: To assess the cost-effectiveness of pembrolizumab monotherapy 
compared with standard chemotherapy for the treatment of advanced non-small cell 
lung cancer (NSCLC) in previously untreated adults who have a high programmed 
death ligand 1 (PD-L1) tumor proportion score of 50% or greater in 
Singapore.Materials and methods: A partitioned-survival analysis model was 
developed from a healthcare system's perspective that extrapolated clinical and 
economic outcomes of first-line pembrolizumab (maximum treatment duration of 
2 years) versus platinum doublet chemotherapy over a 10-year time horizon for 
patients with advanced NSCLC. The model consisted of three health states: alive 
with no progression, alive with progression, and dead. Key clinical inputs were 
based on Kaplan-Meier survival curves from the interim (median follow-up = 
11.2 months) and updated analysis (median follow-up = 25.2 months) of the 
KEYNOTE-024 randomized controlled trial. Local cost data were applied. Utilities 
were derived from published international estimates. Both one-way and 
multivariate probabilistic sensitivity analyses (PSA) were conducted to identify 
key drivers of the results.Results: Using the results from the updated analysis 
of KEYNOTE-024, patients treated with pembrolizumab experienced more quality 
adjusted life-years (QALYs), but incurred higher costs compared to chemotherapy 
over a 10-year time horizon (pembrolizumab: 1.9983 QALYs, SGD215,761; 
chemotherapy: 1.1317 QALYs, SGD70,444). The base-case incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) was SGD167,692 per QALY gained. One-way 
sensitivity analysis showed the ICER was most sensitive to the cost of 
pembrolizumab, followed by the time horizon. Multivariate PSA indicated that 
pembrolizumab had 0% probability of being cost-effective at a hypothetical 
willingness-to-pay threshold of SGD100,000 per QALY gained.Conclusion: While 
pembrolizumab is superior to standard chemotherapy in improving overall survival 
and progression-free survival, results suggest that it is unlikely to be 
cost-effective at its current price in Singapore. Factors including clinical 
effectiveness, safety, and budget impact should also be considered when making 
national funding decisions.

DOI: 10.1080/13696998.2020.1775620
PMID: 32462958 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


425. Chem Commun (Camb). 2020 Jul 4;56(52):7179-7182. doi: 10.1039/d0cc03059g.
Epub  2020 May 28.

An emulsion-free digital flow cytometric platform for the precise quantification 
of microRNA based on single molecule extension-illuminated microbeads 
(dFlowSeim).

Fan W (1), Qi Y , Lu X , Ren W , Liu C , Li Z .

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Applied Surface and Colloid Chemistry, Ministry of 
Education, Key Laboratory of Analytical Chemistry for Life Science of Shaanxi 
Province, School of Chemistry & Chemical Engineering, Shaanxi Normal University, 
Xi'an 710062, Shaanxi Province, P. R. China. liuch@snnu.edu.cn.

A robust digital flow cytometric platform is developed towards the precise 
quantification of microRNAs based on single molecule extension-illuminated 
microbeads (dFlowSeim).

DOI: 10.1039/d0cc03059g
PMID: 32463032


426. J Prev Alzheimers Dis. 2020;7(3):158-164. doi: 10.14283/jpad.2020.19.

Rationale for Early Diagnosis of Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) Supported by 
Emerging Digital Technologies.

Sabbagh MN(1), Boada M, Borson S, Chilukuri M, Doraiswamy PM, Dubois B, Ingram 
J, Iwata A, Porsteinsson AP, Possin KL, Rabinovici GD, Vellas B, Chao S, 
Vergallo A, Hampel H.

Author information:
(1)Marwan N. Sabbagh, Cleveland Clinic Lou Ruvo Center for Brain Health, Las 
Vegas, NV, USA, sabbagm@ccf.org; Tel.: (702) 483-6029; Fax: (702) 722-6584.

Disease-modifying pharmacotherapies for Alzheimer's Disease (AD) are currently 
in late-stage clinical development; once approved, new healthcare 
infrastructures and services, including primary healthcare, will be necessary to 
accommodate a huge demand for early and large-scale detection of AD. The 
increasing global accessibility of digital consumer electronics has opened up 
new prospects for early diagnosis and management of mild cognitive impairment 
(MCI) with particular regard to AD. This new wave of innovation has spurred 
research in both academia and industry, aimed at developing and validating a new 
"digital generation" of tools for the assessment of the cognitive performance. 
In light of this paradigm shift, an international working group (the Global 
Advisory Group on Future MCI Care Pathways) convened to elaborate on how digital 
tools may be optimally integrated in screening-diagnostic pathways of AD The 
working group developed consensus perspectives on new algorithms for large-scale 
screening, detection, and diagnosis of individuals with MCI within primary 
medical care delivery. In addition, the expert panel addressed operational 
aspects concerning the implementation of unsupervised at-home testing of 
cognitive performance. The ultimate intent of the working group's consensus 
perspectives is to provide guidance to developers of cognitive tests and tools 
to facilitate the transition toward globally accessible cognitive screening 
aimed at the early detection, diagnosis, and management of MCI due to AD.

DOI: 10.14283/jpad.2020.19
PMID: 32463068 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: MB is affiliated with the Research Center and 
Memory Clinic, Fundació ACE, Institut Català de Neurociències Aplicades, 
Universitat Internacional de Catalunya, Barcelona, Spain; and with the 
Networking Research Center on Neurodegenerative Diseases (CIBERNED), Instituto 
de Salud Carlos III, Spain. Private research funding sources include Grifols SA; 
Caixabank S.A.; Life Molecular Imaging; Araclon Biotech; Laboratorios Echevarne; 
Festival Castell Paralada; Bonpreu/Esclat; and Famila Carbó. Public grants 
include those from Instituto de Salud Carlos III. Ministerio de Salud. Gobierno 
de España; Dirección General de Farmacia. Ministerio de Salud. Gobierno de 
España; and European Commission:H2020 program, Innovative Medicine Initiative 
(IMI-2); and ERA-NET NEURON program, European Marie Sklodowska Curie. Advisory 
work includes that for Araclon Biotech, Biogen, Bioibérica, Eisai, Grifols, 
Lilly, Merck, Nutricia, Roche, Oryzon, Schwabe Farma, Servier, and Kyowa Kirin. 
PMD has received research grants (through Duke University) from Avid, Lilly, 
Neuronetrix, Avanir, Bauch, Alzheimer’s Drug Discovery Foundation, Cure 
Alzheimer’s Fund, Wrenn Trust, DOD, ONR, and NIH. PMD has received speaking or 
advisory fees from Anthrotronix, Neuroptix, Genomind, Clearview, Cognicity, 
Nutricia, Living Media, Verily, RBC, Brain Canada, and CEOs Against Alzheimers. 
PMD owns shares in Muses Labs, Anthrotronix, Evidation Health, Turtle Shell 
Technologies and Advera Health Analytics whose products are not discussed here. 
He has received travel support from World Economic Forum, CCABH and Canaan 
Ventures. PMD served/serves on the board of Baycrest, AHEL, TLLF and TGHF. PMD 
is a co-inventor (through Duke) on patents relating to dementia biomarkers and 
therapies. BD is affiliated with the Institute of Memory and Alzheimer’s Disease 
(IM2A), Department of Neurology, Salpêtrière Hospital, AP-HP, 
Sorbonne-Université, Paris, France. JI is affiliated as an Assistant 
Professor-Adjunct (Group1) with the Department of Family Practice at Queen’s 
University. She was also a panelist for Hoffman-La Roche Limited, Ottawa, on an 
Alzheimer’s Disease Panel. She is involved with the Canadian Consortium on 
Neurodegeneration in Aging (CCNA), Extension Study as a Co- Investigator and 
Research Coordinator. AI received lecture fees from Eisai, Janssen, Otsuka, Eli 
Lilly, MSD, Chugai-Roche, Daiichi-Sankyo, Alnylam, Takeda, UCB, Ono, Integra 
Japan, IQVIA, Fuji Rebio, Biogen, and advisory fees from Janssen during the past 
three years. AP reports personal fees from Acadia Pharmaceuticals, Functional 
Neuromodulation, Neurim Pharmaceuticals, Grifols, Eisai, BioXcel, Tetra 
Discovery Partners, and Merck; grants from AstraZeneca, Avanir, Biogen, 
Biohaven, Eisai, Eli Lilly, Janssen, Genentech/Roche, Novartis, Merck, as well 
as funding from NIA, NIMH, DOD. KLP receives grant funding from the National 
Institute on Aging, the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, 
the Global Brain Health Institute, and Quest Diagnostics. BV has consultancy and 
research grants from Roche, Biogen, EISAI, Nestle, Lilly, Cerecin, and Merck. HH 
is an employee of Eisai Inc. and serves as Senior Associate Editor for the 
Journal Alzheimer’s and Dementia; during the past three years he had received 
lecture fees from Servier, Biogen and Roche, research grants from Pfizer, Avid, 
and MSD Avenir (paid to the institution), travel funding from Eisai, Functional 
Neuromodulation, Axovant, Eli Lilly and company, Takeda and Zinfandel, 
GE-Healthcare and Oryzon Genomics, consultancy fees from Qynapse, Jung 
Diagnostics, Cytox Ltd., Axovant, Anavex, Takeda and Zinfandel, GE Healthcare, 
Oryzon Genomics, and Functional Neuromodulation, and participated in scientific 
advisory boards of Functional Neuromodulation, Axovant, Eisai, Eli Lilly and 
company, Cytox Ltd., GE Healthcare, Takeda and Zinfandel, Oryzon Genomics and 
Roche Diagnostics. He is co-inventor in the following patents as a scientific 
expert and has received no royalties: In Vitro Multiparameter Determination 
Method for the Diagnosis and Early Diagnosis of Neurodegenerative Disorders 
Patent Number: 8916388; In Vitro Procedure for Diagnosis and Early Diagnosis of 
Neurodegenerative Diseases Patent Number: 8298784; Neurodegenerative Markers for 
Psychiatric Conditions Publication Number: 20120196300; In Vitro Multiparameter 
Determination Method for The Diagnosis and Early Diagnosis of Neurodegenerative 
Disorders Publication Number: 20100062463; In Vitro Method for The Diagnosis and 
Early Diagnosis of Neurodegenerative Disorders Publication Number: 20100035286; 
In Vitro Procedure for Diagnosis and Early Diagnosis of Neurodegenerative 
Diseases Publication Number: 20090263822; In Vitro Method for The Diagnosis of 
Neurodegenerative Diseases Patent Number: 7547553; CSF Diagnostic in Vitro 
Method for Diagnosis of Dementias and Neuroinflammatory Diseases Publication 
Number: 20080206797; In Vitro Method for The Diagnosis of Neurodegenerative 
Diseases Publication Number: 20080199966; Neurodegenerative Markers for 
Psychiatric Conditions Publication Number: 20080131921. AV is an employee of 
Eisai Inc. and received lecture honoraria from Roche, MagQu LLC, and Servier.


427. J Prev Alzheimers Dis. 2020;7(3):165-170. doi: 10.14283/jpad.2020.21.

Early Detection of Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) in Primary Care.

Sabbagh MN(1), Boada M, Borson S, Chilukuri M, Dubois B, Ingram J, Iwata A, 
Porsteinsson AP, Possin KL, Rabinovici GD, Vellas B, Chao S, Vergallo A, Hampel 
H.

Author information:
(1)Marwan N. Sabbagh, Cleveland Clinic Lou Ruvo Center for Brain Health, Las 
Vegas, NV, USA, sabbagm@ccf.org; Tel.: (702) 483-6029; Fax: (702) 722-6584.

Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) is significantly misdiagnosed in the primary 
care setting due to multi-dimensional frictions and barriers associated with 
evaluating individuals' cognitive performance. To move toward large-scale 
cognitive screening, a global panel of clinicians and cognitive neuroscientists 
convened to elaborate on current challenges that hamper widespread cognitive 
performance assessment. This report summarizes a conceptual framework and 
provides guidance to clinical researchers and test developers and suppliers to 
inform ongoing refinement of cognitive evaluation. This perspective builds upon 
a previous article in this series, which outlined the rationale for and 
potentially against efforts to promote widespread detection of MCI. This working 
group acknowledges that cognitive screening by default is not recommended and 
proposes large-scale evaluation of individuals with a concern or interest in 
their cognitive performance. Such a strategy can increase the likelihood to 
timely and effective identification and management of MCI. The rising global 
incidence of AD demands innovation that will help alleviate the burden to 
healthcare systems when coupled with the potentially near-term approval of 
disease-modifying therapies. Additionally, we argue that adequate 
infrastructure, equipment, and resources urgently should be integrated in the 
primary care setting to optimize the patient journey and accommodate widespread 
cognitive evaluation.

DOI: 10.14283/jpad.2020.21
PMID: 32463069 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: MB is affiliated with the Research Center and 
Memory Clinic, Fundació ACE, Institut Català de Neurociències Aplicades, 
Universitat Internacional de Catalunya, Barcelona, Spain; and with the 
Networking Research Center on Neurodegenerative Diseases (CIBERNED), Instituto 
de Salud Carlos III, Spain. Private research funding sources include Grifols SA; 
Caixabank S.A.; Life Molecular Imaging; Araclon Biotech; Laboratorios Echevarne; 
Festival Castell Paralada; Bonpreu/Esclat; and Famila Carbó. Public grants 
include those from Instituto de Salud Carlos III. Ministerio de Salud. Gobierno 
de España; Dirección General de Farmacia. Ministerio de Salud. Gobierno de 
España; and European Commission:H2020 program, Innovative Medicine Initiative 
(IMI-2); and ERA-NET NEURON program, European Marie Sklodowska Curie. Advisory 
work includes that for Araclon Biotech, Biogen, Bioibérica, Eisai, Grifols, 
Lilly, Merck, Nutricia, Roche, Oryzon, Schwabe Farma, Servier, and Kyowa Kirin. 
BD is affiliated with the Institute of Memory and Alzheimer’s Disease (IM2A), 
Department of Neurology, Salpêtrière Hospital, AP-HP, Sorbonne-Université, 
Paris, France. JI is affiliated as an Assistant Professor-Adjunct (Group1) with 
the Department of Family Practice at Queen’s University. She was also a panelist 
for Hoffman-La Roche Limited, Ottawa, on an Alzheimer’s Disease Panel. She is 
involved with the Canadian Consortium on Neurodegeneration in Aging (CCNA), 
Extension Study as a Co- Investigator and Research Coordinator. AI received 
lecture fees from Eisai, Janssen, Otsuka, Eli Lilly, MSD, Chugai-Roche, 
Daiichi-Sankyo, Alnylam, Takeda, UCB, Ono, Integra Japan, IQVIA, Fuji Rebio, 
Biogen, and advisory fees from Janssen during the past three years. AP reports 
personal fees from Acadia Pharmaceuticals, Functional Neuromodulation, Neurim 
Pharmaceuticals, Grifols, Eisai, BioXcel, Tetra Discovery Partners, and Merck; 
grants from AstraZeneca, Avanir, Biogen, Biohaven, Eisai, Eli Lilly, Janssen, 
Genentech/Roche, Novartis, Merck, as well as funding from NIA, NIMH, DOD. KLP 
receives grant funding from the National Institute on Aging, the National 
Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, the Global Brain Health 
Institute, and Quest Diagnostics. BV has consultancy and research grants from 
Roche, Biogen, EISAI, Nestle, Lilly, Cerecin, and Merck. HH is an employee of 
Eisai Inc. and serves as Senior Associate Editor for the Journal Alzheimer’s and 
Dementia; during the past three years he had received lecture fees from Servier, 
Biogen and Roche, research grants from Pfizer, Avid, and MSD Avenir (paid to the 
institution), travel funding from Eisai, Functional Neuromodulation, Axovant, 
Eli Lilly and company, Takeda and Zinfandel, GE-Healthcare and Oryzon Genomics, 
consultancy fees from Qynapse, Jung Diagnostics, Cytox Ltd., Axovant, Anavex, 
Takeda and Zinfandel, GE Healthcare, Oryzon Genomics, and Functional 
Neuromodulation, and participated in scientific advisory boards of Functional 
Neuromodulation, Axovant, Eisai, Eli Lilly and company, Cytox Ltd., GE 
Healthcare, Takeda and Zinfandel, Oryzon Genomics and Roche Diagnostics. He is 
co-inventor in the following patents as a scientific expert and has received no 
royalties: In Vitro Multiparameter Determination Method for The Diagnosis and 
Early Diagnosis of Neurodegenerative Disorders Patent Number: 8916388; In Vitro 
Procedure for Diagnosis and Early Diagnosis of Neurodegenerative Diseases Patent 
Number: 8298784; Neurodegenerative Markers for Psychiatric Conditions 
Publication Number: 20120196300; In Vitro Multiparameter Determination Method 
for The Diagnosis and Early Diagnosis of Neurodegenerative Disorders Publication 
Number: 20100062463; In Vitro Method for The Diagnosis and Early Diagnosis of 
Neurodegenerative Disorders Publication Number: 20100035286; In Vitro Procedure 
for Diagnosis and Early Diagnosis of Neurodegenerative Diseases Publication 
Number: 20090263822; In Vitro Method for The Diagnosis of Neurodegenerative 
Diseases Patent Number: 7547553; CSF Diagnostic in Vitro Method for Diagnosis of 
Dementias and Neuroinflammatory Diseases Publication Number: 20080206797; In 
Vitro Method for The Diagnosis of Neurodegenerative Diseases Publication Number: 
20080199966; Neurodegenerative Markers for Psychiatric Conditions Publication 
Number: 20080131921. AV is an employee of Eisai Inc. and received lecture 
honoraria from Roche, MagQu LLC, and Servier.


428. J Prev Alzheimers Dis. 2020;7(3):171-178. doi: 10.14283/jpad.2020.22.

Early Detection of Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) in an At-Home Setting.

Sabbagh MN(1), Boada M, Borson S, Doraiswamy PM, Dubois B, Ingram J, Iwata A, 
Porsteinsson AP, Possin KL, Rabinovici GD, Vellas B, Chao S, Vergallo A, Hampel 
H.

Author information:
(1)Marwan N. Sabbagh, Cleveland Clinic Lou Ruvo Center for Brain Health, Las 
Vegas, NV, USA, sabbagm@ccf.org; Tel.: (702) 483-6029; Fax: (702) 722-6584.

Emerging digital tools have the potential to enable a new generation of 
qualitative and quantitative assessment of cognitive performance. Moreover, the 
ubiquity of consumer electronics, such as smartphones and tablets, can be 
harnessed to support large-scale self-assessed cognitive screening with benefit 
to healthcare systems and consumers. A wide variety of apps, wearables, and new 
digital technologies are either available or in development for the detection of 
mild cognitive impairment (MCI), a risk factor for dementia. Two categories of 
novel methodologies may be considered: passive technologies (which monitor a 
user's behavior without active user input) and interactive assessments (which 
require active user input). Such examinations can be self-administered, 
supervised by a caregiver, or conducted by an informant at home or outside of a 
clinical setting. These direct-to-consumer tools have the potential to sidestep 
barriers associated with cognitive evaluation in primary care, thus improving 
access to cognitive assessments. Although direct-to-consumer cognitive 
assessment is associated with its own barriers, including test validation, user 
experience, and technological concerns, it is conceivable that these issues can 
be addressed so that a large-scale, self-assessed cognitive evaluation that 
would represent an initial cognitive screen may be feasible in the future.

DOI: 10.14283/jpad.2020.22
PMID: 32463070 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: MNS Royalty: HarperCollins, Stock: uMethod 
Health, Brain Health, Inc, Optimal Cognitive Health Company, M3 Biosciences, 
Versanum, NeuroReserveAlzheon and Athira, Speakers Bureau: Peerview and Medscape 
and HWP, Consultant: Biogen, Bracket/Signant, Neurotrope, Cortexyme, Roche, 
Grifols, Sanofi, Regeneron, Eisai, Neuronix, Acadia. MB is affiliated with the 
Research Center and Memory Clinic, Fundació ACE, Institut Català de 
Neurociències Aplicades, Universitat Internacional de Catalunya, Barcelona, 
Spain; and with the Networking Research Center on Neurodegenerative Diseases 
(CIBERNED), Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Spain. Private research funding 
sources include Grifols SA; Caixabank S.A.; Life Molecular Imaging; Araclon 
Biotech; Laboratorios Echevarne; Festival Castell Paralada; Bonpreu/Esclat; and 
Famila Carbó. Public grants include those from Instituto de Salud Carlos III. 
Ministerio de Salud. Gobierno de España; Dirección General de Farmacia. 
Ministerio de Salud. Gobierno de España; and European Commission:H2020 program, 
Innovative Medicine Initiative (IMI-2); and ERA-NET NEURON program, European 
Marie Sklodowska Curie. Advisory work includes that for Araclon Biotech, Biogen, 
Bioibérica, Eisai, Grifols, Lilly, Merck, Nutricia, Roche, Oryzon, Schwabe 
Farma, Servier, and Kyowa Kirin. PMD has received research grants (through Duke 
University) from Avid, Lilly, Neuronetrix, Avanir, Bauch, Alzheimer’s Drug 
Discovery Foundation, Cure Alzheimer’s Fund, Wrenn Trust, DOD, ONR, and NIH. PMD 
has received speaking or advisory fees from Anthrotronix, Neuroptix, Genomind, 
Clearview, Cognicity, Nutricia, Living Media, Verily, RBC, Brain Canada, and 
CEOs Against Alzheimers. PMD owns shares in Muses Labs, Anthrotronix, Evidation 
Health, Turtle Shell Technologies and Advera Health Analytics whose products are 
not discussed here. He has received travel support from World Economic Forum, 
CCABH and Canaan Ventures. PMD served/serves on the board of Baycrest, AHEL, 
TLLF and TGHF. PMD is a co-inventor (through Duke) on patents relating to 
dementia biomarkers and therapies. BD is affiliated with the Institute of Memory 
and Alzheimer’s Disease (IM2A), Department of Neurology, Salpêtrière Hospital, 
AP-HP, Sorbonne-Université, Paris, France. JI is affiliated as an Assistant 
Professor-Adjunct (Group1) with the Department of Family Practice at Queen’s 
University. She was also a panelist for Hoffman-La Roche Limited, Ottawa, on an 
Alzheimer’s Disease Panel. She is involved with the Canadian Consortium on 
Neurodegeneration in Aging (CCNA), Extension Study as a Co- Investigator and 
Research Coordinator. AI received lecture fees from Eisai, Janssen, Otsuka, Eli 
Lilly, MSD, Chugai-Roche, Daiichi-Sankyo, Alnylam, Takeda, UCB, Ono, Integra 
Japan, IQVIA, Fuji Rebio, Biogen, and advisory fees from Janssen during the past 
three years. AP reports personal fees from Acadia Pharmaceuticals, Functional 
Neuromodulation, Neurim Pharmaceuticals, Grifols, Eisai, BioXcel, Tetra 
Discovery Partners, and Merck; grants from AstraZeneca, Avanir, Biogen, 
Biohaven, Eisai, Eli Lilly, Janssen, Genentech/Roche, Novartis, Merck, as well 
as funding from NIA, NIMH, DOD. KLP receives grant funding from the National 
Institute on Aging, the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, 
the Global Brain Health Institute, and Quest Diagnostics. BV has consultancy and 
research grants from Roche, Biogen, EISAI, Nestle, Lilly, Cerecin, and Merck. HH 
is an employee of Eisai Inc. and serves as Senior Associate Editor for the 
Journal Alzheimer’s and Dementia; during the past three years he had received 
lecture fees from Servier, Biogen and Roche, research grants from Pfizer, Avid, 
and MSD Avenir (paid to the institution), travel funding from Eisai, Functional 
Neuromodulation, Axovant, Eli Lilly and company, Takeda and Zinfandel, 
GE-Healthcare and Oryzon Genomics, consultancy fees from Qynapse, Jung 
Diagnostics, Cytox Ltd., Axovant, Anavex, Takeda and Zinfandel, GE Healthcare, 
Oryzon Genomics, and Functional Neuromodulation, and participated in scientific 
advisory boards of Functional Neuromodulation, Axovant, Eisai, Eli Lilly and 
company, Cytox Ltd., GE Healthcare, Takeda and Zinfandel, Oryzon Genomics and 
Roche Diagnostics. He is co-inventor in the following patents as a scientific 
expert and has received no royalties: In Vitro Multiparameter Determination 
Method for the Diagnosis and Early Diagnosis of Neurodegenerative Disorders 
Patent Number: 8916388; In Vitro Procedure for Diagnosis and Early Diagnosis of 
Neurodegenerative Diseases Patent Number: 8298784; • Neurodegenerative Markers 
for Psychiatric Conditions Publication Number: 20120196300; In Vitro 
Multiparameter Determination Method for The Diagnosis and Early Diagnosis of 
Neurodegenerative Disorders Publication Number: 20100062463; In Vitro Method for 
The Diagnosis and Early Diagnosis of Neurodegenerative Disorders Publication 
Number: 20100035286; In Vitro Procedure for Diagnosis and Early Diagnosis of 
Neurodegenerative Diseases Publication Number: 20090263822; In Vitro Method for 
the Diagnosis of Neurodegenerative Diseases Patent Number: 7547553; CSF 
Diagnostic in Vitro Method for Diagnosis of Dementias and Neuroinflammatory 
Diseases Publication Number: 20080206797; In Vitro Method for The Diagnosis of 
Neurodegenerative Diseases Publication Number: 20080199966; Neurodegenerative 
Markers for Psychiatric Conditions Publication Number: 20080131921. AV is an 
employee of Eisai Inc. and received lecture honoraria from Roche, MagQu LLC, and 
Servier.


429. Br J Surg. 2020 Jun;107(7):793-800. doi: 10.1002/bjs.11686.

Regenerative medicine, organ bioengineering and transplantation.

Edgar L(1), Pu T(1), Porter B(2), Aziz JM(1), La Pointe C(3), Asthana A(1), 
Orlando G(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Section of Transplantation, Wake Forest University 
School of Medicine, Winston Salem, North Carolina, USA.
(2)University of Florida College of Medicine, Gainesville, Florida, USA.
(3)Sherbrooke University, Sherbrooke, Quebec, Canada.

Comment in
    Br J Surg. 2021 Nov 11;108(11):e386.

BACKGROUND: Organ transplantation is predicted to increase as life expectancy 
and the incidence of chronic diseases rises. Regenerative medicine-inspired 
technologies challenge the efficacy of the current allograft transplantation 
model.
METHODS: A literature review was conducted using the PubMed interface of MEDLINE 
from the National Library of Medicine. Results were examined for relevance to 
innovations of organ bioengineering to inform analysis of advances in 
regenerative medicine affecting organ transplantation. Data reports from the 
Scientific Registry of Transplant Recipient and Organ Procurement 
Transplantation Network from 2008 to 2019 of kidney, pancreas, liver, heart, 
lung and intestine transplants performed, and patients currently on waiting 
lists for respective organs, were reviewed to demonstrate the shortage and need 
for transplantable organs.
RESULTS: Regenerative medicine technologies aim to repair and regenerate poorly 
