Pakistan.
(201)Chairman BOG, Afro-Asian Institute, Lahore, Pakistan.
(202)Adelaide Medical School, University of Adelaide, Adelaide, SA, Australia.
(203)Nursing and Midwifery Department, Mazandaran University of Medical 
Sciences, Sari, Iran.
(204)Center for Clinical and Epidemiological Research, University of São Paulo, 
Sao Paulo, Brazil.
(205)Internal Medicine Department, University of São Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil.
(206)Department of Dermatology, Boston University, Boston, MA, USA.
(207)Institute of Public Health, United Arab Emirates University, Al Ain, United 
Arab Emirates.
(208)Instituto de Patologia Tropical e Saúde Pública, Federal University of 
Goias, Goiânia, Brazil.
(209)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Zhengzhou University, 
Zhengzhou, China.
(210)Non-Communicable Diseases (NCD), World Health Organization (WHO), New 
Delhi, India.
(211)Department of Public Health, Erasmus University Medical Center, Rotterdam, 
Netherlands.
(212)Global and Community Mental Health Research Group, University of Macau, 
Macao, China.
(213)Department of Family and Community Medicine, Arabian Gulf University, 
Manama, Bahrain.
(214)School of Health and Environmental Studies, Hamdan Bin Mohammed Smart 
University, Dubai, United Arab Emirates.
(215)Biomedical Research Networking Center for Mental Health Network (CiberSAM), 
Madrid, Spain.
(216)Research and Development Unit, San Juan de Dios Sanitary Park, Sant Boi de 
Llobregat, Spain.
(217)Department of Microbiology, Maragheh University of Medical Sciences, 
Maragheh, Iran.
(218)Department of Microbiology, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, 
Iran.
(219)Centre for International Health and Section for Ethics and Health 
Economics, University of Bergen, Bergen, Norway.
(220)Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease Research Center, Guilan University of 
Medical Sciences, Rasht, Iran.
(221)Guilan University of Medical Sciences, Rasht, Iran.
(222)School of Nursing and Midwifery, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, 
Tabriz, Iran.
(223)Independent Consultant, Tabriz, Iran.
(224)Department of Public Health, Mizan-Tepi University, Tepi, Ethiopia.
(225)Unit of Epidemiology and Social Medicine, University Hospital Antwerp, 
Wilrijk, Belgium.
(226)Department of Clinical Sciences, Karolinska University Hospital, Stockholm, 
Sweden.
(227)Medical Biology Research Center, Kermanshah University of Medical Sciences, 
Kermanshah, Iran.
(228)Research Coordination, AC Environments Foundation, Cuernavaca, Mexico.
(229)CISS, National Institute of Public Health, Cuernavaca. Mexico.
(230)Department of Urban Planning and Design, University of Hong Kong, Hong 
Kong, China.
(231)Center of Excellence in Behavioral Medicine, Nguyen Tat Thanh University, 
Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam.
(232)Department of Pediatrics, Dell Medical School, University of Texas Austin, 
Austin, TX, USA.
(233)Kasturba Medical College, Manipal Academy of Higher Education, Manipal, 
India.
(234)Department of Pharmacology and Therapeutics, Dhaka Medical College, Dhaka, 
Bangladesh.
(235)Department of Pharmacology, Bangladesh Industrial Gases Limited, Tangail, 
Bangladesh.
(236)Department of Computer Engineering, Islamic Azad University, Tehran, Iran.
(237)Computer Science Department, University of Human Development, Sulaymaniyah, 
Iraq.
(238)Department of Legal Medicine and Bioethics, Carol Davila University of 
Medicine and Pharmacy, Bucharest, Romania.
(239)Clinical Legal Medicine Department, National Institute of Legal Medicine 
Mina Minovici, Bucharest, Romania.
(240)Department of Epidemiology and Health Statistics, Central South University, 
Changsha, China.
(241)Department of Health Promotion and Education, University of Ibadan, Ibadan, 
Nigeria.
(242)Department of Community Medicine, University of Ibadan, Ibadan, Nigeria.
(243)Department of Family Medicine, Bangalore Baptist Hospital, Bangalore, 
India.
(244)Research Institute for Endocrine Sciences, Shahid Beheshti University of 
Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(245)School of Psychology and Public Health, La Trobe University, Bundoora, 
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
(246)Institute for Physical Activity and Nutrition, Deakin University, Burwood, 
Victoria, Australia.
(247)Sydney Medical School, University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, 
Australia.
(248)School of Public Health and Community Medicine, University of New South 
Wales, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
(249)Faculty of Medicine, Babol University of Medical Sciences, Babol, Iran.
(250)Department for Health Care and Public Health, Sechenov First Moscow State 
Medical University, Moscow, Russia.
(251)Social Development & Health Promotion Research Center, Kermanshah 
University of Medical Sciences, Kermanshah, Iran.
(252)Department of Surgery, Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond, VA, USA.
(253)Institute of Medicine, University of Colombo, Colombo, Sri Lanka.
(254)Faculty of Graduate Studies, University of Colombo, Colombo, Sri Lanka.
(255)Department of Community Medicine, Banaras Hindu University, Varanasi, 
India.
(256)Health Promotion and Education, University of Ibadan, Ibadan, Nigeria.
(257)Department of Ophthalmology, Heidelberg University, Mannheim, Germany.
(258)Beijing Ophthalmology & Visual Science Key Laboratory, Beijing Tongren 
Hospital, Beijing, China.
(259)Auckland University of Technology, Auckland, New Zealand.
(260)Community Medicine Department, Manipal Academy of Higher Education, 
Mangalore, India.
(261)Department of Family Medicine and Public Health, University of Opole, 
Opole, Poland.
(262)School of Health Sciences, Savitribai Phule Pune University, Pune, India.
(263)Institute of Family Medicine and Public Health, University of Tartu, Tartu, 
Estonia.
(264)Minimally Invasive Surgery Research Center, Iran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(265)Department of Medical Informatics, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, 
Tabriz, Iran.
(266)Social Determinants of Health Research Center, Research Institute for 
Prevention of Non-Communicable Diseases, Qazvin University of Medical Sciences, 
Qazvin, Iran.
(267)Health Services Management Department, Qazvin University of Medical 
Sciences, Qazvin, Iran.
(268)School of Public Health, Department of Health informatics and Health 
Innovation, A.C.S. Medical College and Hospital, Mekelle, Ethiopia.
(269)Department of Forensic Medicine and Toxicology, All India Institute of 
Medical Sciences, Jodhpur, India.
(270)Department of Epidemiology, Hamadan University of Medical Sciences, 
Hamadan, Iran.
(271)Hematology-Oncology and Stem Cell Transplantation Research Center, Tehran 
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(272)Pars Advanced and Minimally Invasive Medical Manners Research Center, Iran 
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(273)Department of Applied Physics, The John Paul II Catholic University of 
Lublin, Lublin Voivodeship, Poland.
(274)Department of Biology and Chemistry, Drohobych Ivan Franko State 
Pedagogical University, Drohobych, Ukraine.
(275)International Research Center of Excellence, Institute of Human Virology 
Nigeria, Abuja, Nigeria.
(276)Julius Centre for Health Sciences and Primary Care, Utrecht University, 
Utrecht, Netherlands.
(277)Open, Distance and eLearning Campus, University of Nairobi, Nairobi, Kenya.
(278)Department of Dermatology, Wolaita Sodo University, Wolaita Sodo, Ethiopia.
(279)Department of Public Health, Jordan University of Science and Technology, 
Irbid, Jordan.
(280)Social Determinants of Health Research Center, Ahvaz Jundishapur University 
of Medical Sciences, Ahvaz, Iran.
(281)School of Food and Agricultural Sciences, University of Management and 
Technology, Lahore, Pakistan.
(282)Department of Global Health, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.
(283)Department of Physiology, Baku State University, Baku, Azerbaijan.
(284)Epidemiology, Faculty of Public Health and Tropical Medicine, Jazan 
University, Jazan, Saudi Arabia.
(285)Epidemiology and Biostatistics Department, Health Services Academy, 
Islamabad, Pakistan.
(286)Department of Population Studies, International Institute for Population 
Sciences, Mumbai, India.
(287)Department of Health Research, Indian Council of Medical Research, New 
Delhi, India.
(288)Centre for Ethics, Jawahar Lal Nehru University, New Delhi, India.
(289)Department of Psychiatry, Kermanshah University of Medical Sciences, 
Kermanshah, Iran.
(290)Nuffield Department of Surgical Sciences, Oxford University Global Surgery 
Group, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(291)Research and Data Solutions, Synotech Consultant, Nairobi, Kenya.
(292)Department of Preventive Medicine, Korea University, Seoul, South Korea.
(293)School of Medicine, Xiamen University Malaysia, Sepang, Malaysia.
(294)Department of Health Sciences, Northeastern University, Boston, MA, USA.
(295)Department of Nursing and Health Promotion, Oslo Metropolitan University, 
Oslo, Norway.
(296)School of Health Sciences, Kristiania University College, Oslo, Norway.
(297)Neurophysiology Research Center, Hamadan University of Medical Sciences, 
Hamadan, Iran.
(298)Brain Engineering Research Center, Institute for Research in Fundamental 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(299)Public Health Dentistry Department, Krishna Institute of Medical Sciences 
Deemed to be University, Karad, India.
(300)Environmental Health Engineering, Arak University of Medical Sciences, 
Arak, Iran.
(301)CIBERSAM, San Juan de Dios Sanitary Park, Sant Boi de Llobregat, Spain.
(302)Catalan Institution for Research and Advanced Studies (ICREA), Barcelona, 
Spain.
(303)Department of Zoology, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(304)Harvard Medical School, Harvard University, Boston, MA, USA.
(305)Department of Anthropology, Panjab University, Chandigarh, India.
(306)Department of Demography, University of Montreal, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.
(307)Department of Social and Preventive Medicine, University of Montreal, 
Montreal, Quebec, Canada.
(308)Department of Public Health, Yuksek Ihtisas University, Ankara, Turkey.
(309)Department of Public Health, Hacettepe University, Ankara, Turkey.
(310)Department of Family and Community Health, University of Health and Allied 
Sciences, Ho, Ghana.
(311)Department of Psychology and Health Promotion, University of KwaZulu-Natal, 
Durban, South Africa.
(312)Community Medicine Department, Kasturba Medical College, Manipal Academy of 
Higher Education, Mangalore, India.
(313)Department of Psychiatry, University of Nairobi, Nairobi, Kenya.
(314)Division of Psychology and Language Sciences, University College London, 
London, UK.
(315)Department of Medicine Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard University, 
Boston, MA, USA.
(316)Orthopaedics Department, Base Hospital Lucknow Cantt, Lucknow, India.
(317)Mechanical and Industrial Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology, 
Roorkee, India.
(318)Department of Community and Family Medicine, University of Baghdad, 
Baghdad, Iraq.
(319)HelpMeSee, New York, NY, USA.
(320)International Relations, Mexican Institute of Ophthalmology, Queretaro, 
Mexico.
(321)Department of Otorhinolaryngology (ENT), Father Muller Medical College, 
Mangalore, India.
(322)Department of Public Health, Maragheh University of Medical Sciences, 
Maragheh, Iran.
(323)Institute of Clinical Physiology, National Research Council, Pisa, Italy.
(324)Clinical Medicine and Community Health, University of Milan, Milano, Italy.
(325)College of Optometry, Nova Southeastern University, Fort Lauderdale, FL, 
USA.
(326)School of Pharmacy, Monash University, Bandar Sunway, Malaysia.
(327)School of Pharmacy, Taylor's University Lakeside Campus, Subang Jaya, 
Malaysia.
(328)Department of Systems, Populations and Leadership, University of Michigan, 
Ann Arbor, MI, USA.
(329)Department of Health Metrics Sciences, School of Medicine, University of 
Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.
(330)Department of Medicine, University of São Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil.
(331)Health Data Research UK, Swansea University, Swansea, UK.
(332)Center for Integration of Data and Health Knowledge, FIOCRUZ: Cidacs Center 
for Integration of Data and Health Knowledge, Salvador, Brazil.
(333)Faculty of Epidemiology and Population Health, London School of Hygiene & 
Tropical Medicine, England.
(334)Pathology Department, College of Medicine, Imam Abdulrahman Bin Faisal 
University, Dammam, Saudi Arabia.
(335)Ophthalmology Department, Aswan Faculty of Medicine, Aswan, Egypt.
(336)Institute of Medicine, Tribhuvan University, Kathmandu, Nepal.
(337)Department of Public Health, Trnava University, Trnava, Slovakia.
(338)Department of Primary Care and Public Health, Imperial College London, 
London, UK.
(339)Health Education and Research Department, SDM College of Medical Sciences & 
Hospital, Dharwad, India.
(340)Health University, Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences, Bangalore, 
India.
(341)Department of Maternal and Child Nursing and Public Health, Federal 
University of Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, Brazil.
(342)Ophthalmology Department, Iran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, 
Iran.
(343)Ophthalmology Department, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Manitoba, 
Canada.
(344)Department of Surgery, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA, USA.
(345)Surgery Department, Emergency University Hospital Bucharest, Bucharest, 
Romania.
(346)Psychiatry Department, National Institute of Mental Health and 
Neurosciences, Bengaluru, India.
(347)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(348)Institute for Social Science Research, The University of Queensland, 
Brisbane, Queensland, Australia.
(349)Department of Health Sciences, University of York, York, UK.
(350)Department of Midwifery-Reproductive Health, Hamadan University of Medical 
Sciences, Hamadan, Iran.
(351)Research Department, The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi, 
India.
(352)School of Medicine, University of New South Wales, Sydney, New South Wales, 
Australia.
(353)Neurology Department, Janakpuri Super Specialty Hospital Society, New 
Delhi, India.
(354)Department of Neurology, Govind Ballabh Institute of Medical Education and 
Research, New Delhi, India.
(355)Division of Epidemiology and Prevention, Institute of Human Virology, 
University of Maryland, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(356)Peru Country Office, United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), Lima, Peru.
(357)Forensic Medicine Division, Imam Abdulrahman Bin Faisal University, Dammam, 
Saudi Arabia.
(358)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Haramaya University, Harar, 
Ethiopia.
(359)Breast Surgery Unit, Helsinki University Hospital, Helsinki, Finland.
(360)University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland.
(361)Neurocenter, Helsinki University Hospital, Helsinki, Finland.
(362)School of Health Sciences, University of Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria, 
Australia.
(363)Statistics Department, Debre Markos University, Debre Markos, Ethiopia.
(364)Clinical Microbiology and Parasitology Unit, Zora Profozic Polyclinic, 
Zagreb, Croatia.
(365)University Centre Varazdin, University North, Varazdin, Croatia.
(366)Center for Innovation in Medical Education, Pomeranian Medical University, 
Szczecin, Poland.
(367)Pomeranian Medical University, Szczecin, Poland.
(368)Department of Propedeutics of Internal Diseases & Arterial Hypertension, 
Pomeranian Medical University, Szczecin, Poland.
(369)Pacific Institute for Research & Evaluation, Calverton, MD, USA.
(370)Achutha Menon Centre for Health Science Studies, Sree Chitra Tirunal 
Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology, Trivandrum, India.
(371)Global Institute of Public Health (GIPH), Ananthapuri Hospitals and 
Research Centre, Trivandrum, India.
(372)Department of Statistics and Econometrics, Bucharest University of Economic 
Studies, Bucharest, Romania.
(373)President's Office, National Institute of Statistics, Bucharest, Romania.
(374)Faculty of Internal Medicine, Kyrgyz State Medical Academy, Bishkek, 
Kyrgyzstan.
(375)Department of Atherosclerosis and Coronary Heart Disease, National Center 
of Cardiology and Internal Disease, Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan.
(376)Heidelberg Institute of Global Health (HIGH), Faculty of Medicine and 
University Hospital, Heidelberg University, Heidelberg, Germany.
(377)Institute of Addiction Research (ISFF), Frankfurt University of Applied 
Sciences, Frankfurt, Germany.
(378)Biotechnology Research Center, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, 
Tabriz, Iran.
(379)Molecular Medicine Research Center, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, 
Tabriz, Iran.
(380)Health Equity Research Center, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, 
Tehran, Iran.
(381)Internal Medicine Department, King Saud University, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
(382)Department of Information Technology, University of Human Development, 
Sulaymaniyah, Iraq.
(383)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Shahrekord University of 
Medical Sciences Shahrekord, Iran.
(384)Department of Nursing, Shahroud University of Medical Sciences, Shahroud, 
Iran.
(385)Health Systems and Policy Research Unit, Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, 
Nigeria.
(386)Department of Public Health, Samara University, Samara, Ethiopia.
(387)Iran National Institute of Health Research, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(388)Pediatric Neurorehabilitation Research Center, University of Social Welfare 
and Rehabilitation Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(389)Faculty of Life Sciences and Medicine, King's College London, London, UK.
(390)Clinical Epidemiology and Public Health Research Unit, Burlo Garofolo 
Institute for Maternal and Child Health, Trieste, Italy.
(391)Department of Public Health Medicine, University of KwaZulu-Natal, Durban, 
South Africa.
(392)Research Center for Environmental Determinants of Health, Kermanshah 
University of Medical Sciences, Kermanshah, Iran.
(393)Kermanshah University of Medical Sciences, Kermanshah, Iran.
(394)Social Determinants of Health Research Center, Kurdistan University of 
Medical Sciences, Sanandaj, Iran.
(395)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Kurdistan University of 
Medical Sciences, Sanandaj, Iran.
(396)Preventive Medicine and Public Health Research Center, Iran University of 
Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(397)International Laboratory for Air Quality and Health, Queensland University 
of Technology, Brisbane, Queensland, Australia.
(398)Gorgas Memorial Institute for Health Studies, Panama City, Panama.
(399)Department of Psychiatry, Badhir Dar University, Ethiopia.
(400)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, University of Gondar, Gondar, 
Ethiopia.
(401)School of Medical Sciences, Science University of Malaysia, Kubang Kerian, 
Malaysia.
(402)Department of Pediatric Medicine, Nishtar Medical University, Multan, 
Pakistan.
(403)Department of Pediatrics & Pediatric Pulmonology, Institute of Mother & 
Child Care, Multan, Pakistan.
(404)Clinical Research Development Center, Kermanshah University of Medical 
Sciences, Kermanshah, Iran.
(405)Research and Analytics, Initiative for Financing Health and Human 
Development, Chennai, India.
(406)Research and Analytics, Bioinsilico Technologies, Chennai, India.
(407)Department of Epidemiology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, 
Birmingham, AL, USA.
(408)Laboratory of Public Health Indicators Analysis and Health Digitalization, 
Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology, Dolgoprudny, Russia.
(409)Experimental Surgery and Oncology Laboratory, Kursk State Medical 
University of the Ministry of Health of the Russian Federation, Kursk, Russia.
(410)Department of Epidemiology & Biostatistics, Kermanshah University of 
Medical Sciences, Kermanshah, Iran.
(411)Suraj Eye Institute, Nagpur, India.
(412)Hospital of the Federal University of Minas Gerais, Federal University of 
Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, Brazil.
(413)Mental Health Research Center, IUMS, Tehran, Iran.
(414)Preventive Medicine and Public Health Research Center, IUMS, Tehran, Iran.
(415)Department of Forensic Medicine and Toxicology, Manipal Academy of Higher 
Education, Manipal, India.
(416)Department of Pediatrics, Arak University of Medical Sciences, Arak, Iran.
(417)Iranian Ministry of Health and Medical Education, Tehran, Iran.
(418)Cochrane South Africa, South African Medical Research Council, Cape Town, 
South Africa.
(419)Department of General Surgery, Carol Davila University of Medicine and 
Pharmacy, Bucharest, Romania.
(420)Department of General Surgery, Emergency Hospital of Bucharest, Bucharest, 
Romania.
(421)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Embu, Embu, Kenya.
(422)Institute for Global Health Innovations, Duy Tan University, Hanoi, 
Vietnam.
(423)Project of ADB, National Institute of Nutrition, Hanoi, Vietnam.
(424)Industrial Management Department, Hanoi University of Science and 
Technology, Hanoi, Vietnam.
(425)Department of Pharmacology, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, 
Tehran, Iran.
(426)Heidelberg University Hospital, Heidelberg, Germany.
(427)Public Health Department, Universitas Negeri Semarang, Kota Semarang, 
Indonesia.
(428)Graduate Institute of Biomedical Informatics, Taipei Medical University, 
Taipei City, Taiwan.
(429)School of Public Health and Family Medicine, University of Cape Town, Cape 
Town, South Africa.
(430)Centre of Cardiovascular Research and Education in Therapeutics, Monash 
University, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
(431)Independent Consultant, Accra, Ghana.
(432)UCIBIO, University of Porto, Porto, Portugal.
(433)Reproductive Health Sciences, Department Obstetrics and Gynecology, 
University of Ibadan, Ibadan, Nigeria.
(434)Department of Preventive Medicine, Kyung Hee University, Dongdaemun-gu, 
South Korea.
(435)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioural Neurosciences, McMaster 
University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.
(436)Department of Psychiatry, University of Lagos, Lagos, Nigeria.
(437)Department of Pathology and Molecular Medicine, McMaster University, 
Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.
(438)Diplomacy and Public Relations Department, University of Human Development, 
Sulaimaniyah, Iraq.
(439)Department of Pharmacology and Therapeutics, University of Nigeria Nsukka, 
Enugu, Nigeria.
(440)Applied Research Division, Public Health Agency of Canada, Ottawa, Ontario, 
Canada.
(441)School of Psychology, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.
(442)Department of Global Health Nursing, St. Luke's International University, 
Chuo-ku, Japan.
(443)Academic Department, Unium Ltd, Moscow, Russia.
(444)Department of Project Management, National Research University Higher 
School of Economics, Moscow, Russia.
(445)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Jagadguru Sri Shivarathreeswara Academy 
of Health Education and Research, Mysore, India.
(446)Department of Forensic Medicine, Manipal Academy of Higher Education, 
Manipal, India.
(447)Department of Medicine, Ottawa Hospital Research Institute, Ottawa 
Hospital, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.
(448)Parasitology and Mycology Department, Shiraz University of Medical 
Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
(449)Augenpraxis Jonas, Heidelberg University, Heidelberg, Germany.
(450)Department of Medical Humanities and Social Medicine, Kosin University, 
Busan, South Korea.
(451)Research and Evaluation Department, Population Council, New Delhi, India.
(452)Indian Institute of Health Management Research University, Jaipur, India.
(453)Department of Pediatircs, RD Gardi Medical College, Ujjain, India.
(454)Public Health Sciences, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.
(455)Regional Medical Research Centre, Indian Council of Medical Research, 
Bhubaneswar, India.
(456)Department of Midwifery, Wolaita Sodo University, Wolaita Sodo, Ethiopia.
(457)School of Public Health and Community Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, 
University of New South Wales, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
(458)Center for Research and Innovation, Ateneo De Manila University, Pasig 
City, Philippines.
(459)Department of Orthopedics, Yenepoya Medical College, Mangalore, India.
(460)Department of Psychiatry, Department of Epidemiology, Columbia University, 
New York, NY, USA.
(461)Shanghai Mental Health Center, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, 
China.
(462)Department of Epidemiology and Evidence-Based Medicine, Sechenon 
University, Moscow, Russia.
(463)School of Population and Public Health, University of British Columbia, 
Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.
(464)Digestive Diseases Research Institute, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(465)Department of Nephrology, Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical 
Sciences, Lucknow, India.
(466)Health Sciences Department, Muhammadiyah University of Surakarta, 
Sukoharjo, Indonesia.
(467)Department of Chemistry, Sharif University of Technology, Tehran, Iran.
(468)Biomedical Engineering Department, Amirkabir University of Technology, 
Tehran, Iran.
(469)College of Medicine, University of Central Florida, Orlando, FL, USA.
(470)College of Graduate Health Sciences, A.T. Still University, Mesa, AZ, USA.
(471)Department of Epidemiology & Biostatistics, Contech School of Public 
Health, Lahore, Pakistan.
(472)Department of Medicine, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada.
(473)Department of Immunology, Mazandaran University of Medical Sciences, Sari, 
Iran.
(474)Molecular and Cell Biology Research Center, Mazandaran University of 
Medical Sciences, Sari, Iran.
(475)Thalassemia and Hemoglobinopathy Research Center, Ahvaz Jundishapur 
University of Medical Sciences, Ahvaz, Iran.
(476)Metabolomics and Genomics Research Center, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(477)Faculty of Medicine, Mazandaran University of Medical Sciences, Sari, Iran.
(478)School of Nursing and Healthcare Professions, Federation University 
Australia, Berwick, Victoria, Australia.
(479)School of Nursing and Midwifery, La Trobe University, Melbourne, Victoria, 
Australia.
(480)Faculty of Medicine, Birjand University of Medical Sciences, Birjand, Iran.
(481)European Office for the Prevention and Control of Noncommunicable Diseases, 
World Health Organization (WHO), Moscow, Russia.
(482)Department of Oral Pathology, Srinivas Institute of Dental Sciences, 
Mangalore, India.
(483)School of Behavioral Sciences and Mental Health, Tehran Institute of 
Psychiatry, Tehran, Iran.
(484)Academic Public Health Department, Public Health England, London, UK.
(485)School of Health, Medical and Applied Sciences, CQ University, Sydney, New 
South Wales, Australia.
(486)Department of Computer Science, Metropolitan College, Boston University, 
Boston, USA.
(487)Neurology Department, Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences 
and Technology, Thiruvananthapuram, India.
(488)Brien Holden Vision Institute, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
(489)Organization for the Prevention of Blindness, Paris, France.
(490)EPIUnit - Public Health Institute University Porto (ISPUP), University of 
Porto, Porto, Portugal.
(491)Surgery Department, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN, USA.
(492)Surgery Department, University Teaching Hospital of Kigali, Kigali, Rwanda.
(493)Research Directorate, Nihon Gakko University, Fernando de la Mora, 
Paraguay.
(494)Research Direction, Universidad Nacional de Caaguazú, Coronel Oviedo, 
Paraguay.
(495)Department of Clinical Research, Federal University of Uberlândia, 
Uberlândia, Brazil.
(496)Golestan Research Center of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Golestan 
University of Medical Sciences, Gorgan, Iran.
(497)College of Medicine, University of Sharjah, Sharjah, United Arab Emirates.
(498)Department of Health in Disasters and Emergencies, Shahid Beheshti 
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(499)Department of Neuroscience, Iran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, 
Iran.
(500)Sina Trauma and Surgery Research Center, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(501)Nanobiotechnology Center, Soran University, Soran, Iraq.
(502)Public Health and Community Medicine Department, Cairo University, Giza, 
Egypt.
(503)Urology Department, Cairo University, Giza, Egypt.
(504)Health and Disability Intelligence Group, Ministry of Health, Wellington, 
New Zealand.
(505)Department of Entomology, Ain Shams University, Cairo, Egypt.
(506)Department of Surgery, Marshall University, Huntington, WV, USA.
(507)Department of Nutrition and Preventive Medicine, Case Western Reserve 
University, Cleveland, OH, USA.
(508)Rheumatology Department, University Hospitals Bristol NHS Foundation Trust, 
Bristol, UK.
(509)Institute of Bone and Joint Research, University of Sydney, Syndey, New 
South Wales, Australia.
(510)Institute of Social Medicine, University of Belgrade, Belgrade, Serbia.
(511)Centre-School of Public Health and Health Management, University of 
Belgrade, Belgrade, Serbia.
(512)Health Economics, Bangladesh Institute of Development Studies (BIDS), 
Dhaka, Bangladesh.
(513)Colorectal Research Center, Iran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, 
Iran.
(514)Surgery Department, Hamad Medical Corporation, Doha, Qatar.
(515)Faculty of Health & Social Sciences, Bournemouth University, Bournemouth, 
UK.
(516)Department of Public Health Sciences, University of North Carolina at 
Charlotte, Charlotte, NC, USA.
(517)Education Development Center, Faculty Member of Education Development 
Center, Ahvaz Jundishapur University of Medical Sciences, Ahvaz, Iran.
(518)Department of Psychology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, 
AL, USA.
(519)Department of Psychiatry, Stellenbosch University, Cape Town, South Africa.
(520)Emergency Department, Manian Medical Centre, Erode, India.
(521)Microbiology Service, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA.
(522)Center for Biomedical Information Technology, Shenzhen Institutes of 
Advanced Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shenzhen, China.
(523)Department of Health Promotion and Education, Alborz University of Medical 
Sciences, Karaj, Iran.
(524)Health Policy Research Center, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, 
Shiraz, Iran.
(525)Independent Consultant, Karachi, Pakistan.
(526)School of Medicine, Alborz University of Medical Sciences, Karaj, Iran.
(527)Centre for Medical Informatics, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.
(528)Division of General Internal Medicine, Harvard University, Boston, MA, USA.
(529)National Institute of Infectious Diseases, Tokyo, Japan.
(530)College of Medicine, Yonsei University, Seodaemun-gu, South Korea.
(531)Division of Cardiology, Emory University, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(532)Finnish Institute of Occupational Health, Helsinki, Finland.
(533)Department of Health Education & Promotion, Kermanshah University of 
Medical Sciences, Kermanshah, Iran.
(534)School of Health, University of Technology Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, 
Australia.
(535)Department of Psychology, Reykjavik University, Reykjavik, Iceland.
(536)Department of Health and Behavior Studies, Columbia University, New York, 
NY, USA.
(537)Department of Medicine, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, 
AL, USA.
(538)Medicine Service, US Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), Birmingham, AL, 
USA.
(539)Department of Forensic Medicine, Kathmandu University, Dhulikhel, Nepal.
(540)Department of Epidemiology, School of Preventive Oncology, Patna, India.
(541)Department of Epidemiology, Healis Sekhsaria Institute for Public Health, 
Mumbai, India.
(542)Medical Surgical Nursing Department, Urmia University of Medical Science, 
Urmia, Iran.
(543)Emergency Nursing Department, Semnan University of Medical Sciences, 
Semnan, Iran.
(544)Hospital Universitario de la Princesa, Autonomous University of Madrid, 
Madrid, Spain.
(545)Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red Enfermedades Respiratorias 
(CIBERES), Madrid, Spain.
(546)Department of Public Health, Arba Minch University, Arba Minch, Ethiopia.
(547)Hull York Medical School, University of Hull, Hull City, UK.
(548)Usher Institute of Population Health Sciences and Informatics, University 
of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.
(549)Department of Psychology, Deakin University, Melbourne, Victoria, 
Australia.
(550)Department of Community Medicine, Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, Nigeria.
(551)Department of Criminology, Law and Society, University of California 
Irvine, Irvine, CA, USA.
(552)Department of Medicine, University of Valencia, Valencia, Spain.
(553)Carlos III Health Institute, Biomedical Research Networking Center for 
Mental Health Network (CiberSAM), Madrid, Spain.
(554)School of Social Work, University of Illinois, Urbana, IL, USA.
(555)Public Health, Arba Minch College of Health Sciences, Arba Minch, Ethiopia.
(556)School of Public Health, University of Adelaide, Adelaide, SA, Australia.
(557)Department of Environmental Health, Wollo University, Dessie, Ethiopia.
(558)Department of Community and Family Medicine, Iran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(559)Department of Pharmacognosy, Mekelle University, Mekelle, Ethiopia.
(560)Institute of Public Health, University of Gondar, Gondar, Ethiopia.
(561)Department of Public Health, Adigrat University, Adigrat, Ethiopia.
(562)Biology Department, Moscow State University, Moscow, Russia.
(563)Department of Nursing, Woldia University, Woldia, Ethiopia.
(564)HIV/STI Surveillance Research Center, and WHO Collaborating Center for HIV 
Surveillance, Kerman University of Medical Sciences, Kerman, Iran.
(565)Institute of Public Health, Krakow, Poland.
(566)The Agency for Health Technology Assessment and Tariff System, Warszawa, 
Poland.
(567)Department of Molecular Medicine and Pathology, University of Auckland, 
Auckland, New Zealand.
(568)Clinical Hematology and Toxicology, Military Medical University, Hanoi, 
Vietnam.
(569)Department of Health Economics, Hanoi Medical University, Hanoi, Vietnam.
(570)Department of Psychiatry, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.
(571)Mbarara University of Science and Technology, Mbarara, Uganda.
(572)Department of Medicine, University of Crete, Heraklion, Greece.
(573)Lee Kong Chian School of Medicine, Nanyang Technological University, 
Singapore, Singapore.
(574)Gomal Center of Biochemistry and Biotechnology, Gomal University, Dera 
Ismail Khan, Pakistan.
(575)TB Culture Laboratory, Mufti Mehmood Memorial Teaching Hospital, Dera 
Ismail Khan, Pakistan.
(576)Amity Institute of Biotechnology, Amity University Rajasthan, Jaipur, 
India.
(577)Division of Health Sciences, University of Warwick, Coventry, UK.
(578)Argentine Society of Medicine, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
(579)Velez Sarsfield Hospital, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
(580)UKK Institute, Tampere, Finland.
(581)Psychosocial Injuries Research Center, Ilam University of Medical Sciences, 
Ilam, Iran.
(582)Raffles Neuroscience Centre, Raffles Hospital, Singapore, Singapore.
(583)Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, National University of Singapore, 
Singapore, Singapore.
(584)Department of Medical and Surgical Sciences, University of Bologna, 
Bologna, Italy.
(585)Occupational Health Unit, Sant'Orsola Malpighi Hospital, Bologna, Italy.
(586)Department of Health Care Administration and Economics, National Research 
University Higher School of Economics, Moscow, Russia.
(587)Foundation University Medical College, Foundation University, Islamabad, 
Pakistan.
(588)Department of Physical Therapy, Naresuan University, Meung District, 
Thailand.
(589)Department of Human Anatomy, Histology, and Embryology, Bahir Dar 
University, Bahir Dar, Ethiopia.
(590)Department of Nursing, Wollo University, Dessie, Ethiopia.
(591)Department of Orthopaedics, Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou, China.
(592)Public Health Science Directorate, NHS Health Scotland, Glasgow, Scotland.
(593)Medical Physics Department, Ahvaz Jundishapur University of Medical 
Sciences, Ahvaz, Iran.
(594)Department of Preventive Medicine, Northwestern University, Chicago, IL, 
USA.
(595)School of International Development and Global Studies, University of 
Ottawa, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.
(596)Health Services Management Research Center, Kerman University of Medical 
Sciences, Kerman, Iran.
(597)Department of Health Management, Policy and Economics, Kerman University of 
Medical Sciences, Kerman, Iran.
(598)Division of Injury Prevention and Mental Health Improvement, National 
Center for Chronic and Noncommunicable Disease Control, Chinese Center for 
Disease Control and Prevention, Beijing, China.
(599)Centre for Suicide Research and Prevention, University of Hong Kong, Hong 
Kong, China.
(600)Department of Social Work and Social Administration, University of Hong 
Kong, Hong Kong, China.
(601)School of Allied Health Sciences, Addis Ababa University, Addis Ababa, 
Ethiopia.
(602)Department of Psychopharmacology, National Center of Neurology and 
Psychiatry, Tokyo, Japan.
(603)Department of Sociology, Yonsei University, Seoul, South Korea.
(604)Department of Health Policy & Management, Jackson State University, 
Jackson, MS, USA.
(605)School of Medicine, Tsinghua University, Beijing, China.
(606)Department of Environmental Health, Mazandaran University of Medical 
Sciences, Sari, Iran.
(607)Environmental Health, Academy of Medical Science, Sari, Iran.
(608)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Wuhan University, Wuhan, 
China.
(609)Global Health Institute, Wuhan University, Wuhan, China.
(610)School of Public Health and Management, Hubei University of Medicine, 
Shiyan, China.
(611)Social Determinants of Health Research Center, Ardabil University of 
Medical Science, Ardabil, Iran.
(612)Department of Epidemiology, University Hospital of Setif, Setif, Algeria.
(613)Department of Medicine, School of Clinical Sciences at Monash Health, 
Monash University, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
(614)Student Research Committee, Babol University of Medical Sciences, Babol, 
Iran.
(615)Department of Community Medicine, Ardabil University of Medical Science, 
Ardabil, Iran.
(616)Faculty of Medical Sciences, Department of Health Education, Tarbiat 
Modares University, Tehran, Iran.
(617)Department of Preventive Medicine, Wuhan University, Wuhan, China.
(618)School of Public Health, Wuhan University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, 
China.
(619)Hubei Province Key Laboratory of Occupational Hazard Identification and 
Control, Wuhan University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, China.
(620)Indian Institute of Public Health, Public Health Foundation of India, 
Gurugram, India.
(621)Public Health Foundation of India, Gurugram, India.
(622)Department of Community Medicine, University of Peradeniya, Peradeniya, Sri 
Lanka.

BACKGROUND: While there is a long history of measuring death and disability from 
injuries, modern research methods must account for the wide spectrum of 
disability that can occur in an injury, and must provide estimates with 
sufficient demographic, geographical and temporal detail to be useful for policy 
makers. The Global Burden of Disease (GBD) 2017 study used methods to provide 
highly detailed estimates of global injury burden that meet these criteria.
METHODS: In this study, we report and discuss the methods used in GBD 2017 for 
injury morbidity and mortality burden estimation. In summary, these methods 
included estimating cause-specific mortality for every cause of injury, and then 
estimating incidence for every cause of injury. Non-fatal disability for each 
cause is then calculated based on the probabilities of suffering from different 
types of bodily injury experienced.
RESULTS: GBD 2017 produced morbidity and mortality estimates for 38 causes of 
injury. Estimates were produced in terms of incidence, prevalence, years lived 
with disability, cause-specific mortality, years of life lost and 
disability-adjusted life-years for a 28-year period for 22 age groups, 195 
countries and both sexes.
CONCLUSIONS: GBD 2017 demonstrated a complex and sophisticated series of 
analytical steps using the largest known database of morbidity and mortality 
data on injuries. GBD 2017 results should be used to help inform injury 
prevention policy making and resource allocation. We also identify important 
avenues for improving injury burden estimation in the future.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2020. Re-use permitted under CC BY. Published 
by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/injuryprev-2019-043531
PMCID: PMC7571362
PMID: 32839249 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: Dr. James reports grants 
from Sanofi Pasteur, outside the submitted work. Dr. Driscoll reports grants 
from World Health Organisation, during the conduct of the study. Dr Shariful 
Islam is funded by a Fellowship from National Heart Foundation of Australia and 
Institute for Physical Activity and Nutrition, Deakin University. Dr. Ivers 
reports grants from National Health and Medical Research Council of Australia, 
during the conduct of the study. Dr. Jozwiak reports personal fees from TEVA, 
personal fees from ALAB, personal fees from BOEHRINGER INGELHEIM, personal fees 
from SYNEXUS, non-financial support from SERVIER, non-financial support from 
MICROLIFE, non-financial support from MEDICOVER, outside the submitted work. 
Walter Mendoza is currently Program Analyst Population and Development at the 
Peru Country Office of the United Nations Population Fund-UNFPA, which does not 
necessarily endorses this study. Dr. Rakovac reports grants from World Health 
Organization, during the conduct of the study. Dr. Sheikh reports grants from 
Health Data Research UK, outside the submitted work. Dr. Singh reports personal 
fees from Crealta/Horizon, Medisys, Fidia, UBM LLC, Trio health, Medscape, 
WebMD, Clinical Care options, Clearview healthcare partners, Putnam associates, 
Spherix, Practice Point communications, the National Institutes of Health and 
the American College of Rheumatology, personal fees from Speaker’s bureau of 
Simply Speaking. Dr. Singh owns stock options in Amarin pharmaceuticals and 
Viking pharmaceuticals. Dr. Singh serves on the steering committee of OMERACT, 
an international organization that develops measures for clinical trials and 
receives arms-length funding from 12 pharmaceutical companies. Dr. Singh serves 
on the FDA Arthritis Advisory Committee. Dr. Singh is a member of the Veterans 
Affairs Rheumatology Field Advisory Committee. Dr. Singh is the editor and the 
Director of the UAB Cochrane Musculoskeletal Group Satellite Center on Network 
Meta-analysis, outside the submitted work. Dr. Stein reports personal fees from 
Lundbeck and Sun, outside the submitted work.


569. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2020 Sep 8;117(36):21854-21856. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.2014750117. Epub 2020 Aug 24.

US racial inequality may be as deadly as COVID-19.

Wrigley-Field E(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology and Minnesota Population Center, University of 
Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN 55455 ewf@umn.edu.

The COVID-19 pandemic is causing a catastrophic increase in US mortality. How 
does the scale of this pandemic compare to another US catastrophe: racial 
inequality? Using demographic models, I estimate how many excess White deaths 
would raise US White mortality to the best-ever (lowest) US Black level under 
alternative, plausible assumptions about the age patterning of excess mortality 
in 2020. I find that 400,000 excess White deaths would be needed to equal the 
best mortality ever recorded among Blacks. For White mortality in 2020 to reach 
levels that Blacks experience outside of pandemics, current COVID-19 mortality 
levels would need to increase by a factor of nearly 6. Moreover, White life 
expectancy in 2020 will remain higher than Black life expectancy has ever been 
unless nearly 700,000 excess White deaths occur. Even amid COVID-19, US White 
mortality is likely to be less than what US Blacks have experienced every year. 
I argue that, if Black disadvantage operates every year on the scale of Whites' 
experience of COVID-19, then so too should the tools we deploy to fight it. Our 
imagination should not be limited by how accustomed the United States is to 
profound racial inequality.

Copyright © 2020 the Author(s). Published by PNAS.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2014750117
PMCID: PMC7486779
PMID: 32839337 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The author declares no competing interest.


570. Nat Rev Nephrol. 2020 Oct;16(10):586-602. doi: 10.1038/s41581-020-0333-2.
Epub  2020 Aug 24.

Challenges and novel therapies for vascular access in haemodialysis.

Lawson JH(1)(2), Niklason LE(3)(4), Roy-Chaudhury P(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Duke University, Durham, NC, USA. 
jeffrey.lawson@duke.edu.
(2)Humacyte, Inc., Durham, NC, USA. jeffrey.lawson@duke.edu.
(3)Humacyte, Inc., Durham, NC, USA.
(4)School of Engineering & Applied Science, Yale University, New Haven, CT, USA.
(5)University of North Carolina Kidney Center, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.
(6)WG (Bill) Hefner VA Medical Center, Salisbury, NC, USA.

Advances in standards of care have extended the life expectancy of patients with 
kidney failure. However, options for chronic vascular access for haemodialysis - 
an essential part of kidney replacement therapy - have remained unchanged for 
decades. The high morbidity and mortality associated with current vascular 
access complications highlights an unmet clinical need for novel techniques in 
vascular access and is driving innovation in vascular access care. The 
development of devices, biological approaches and novel access techniques has 
led to new approaches to controlling fistula geometry and manipulating the 
underlying cellular and molecular pathways of the vascular endothelium, and 
influencing fistula maturation and formation through the use of external 
mechanical methods. Innovations in arteriovenous graft materials range from 
small modifications to the graft lumen to the creation of completely novel 
bioengineered grafts. Steps have even been taken to create new devices for the 
treatment of patients with central vein stenosis. However, these emerging 
therapies face difficult hurdles, and truly creative approaches to vascular 
access need resources that include well-designed clinical trials, frequent 
interaction with regulators, interventionalist education and sufficient funding. 
In addition, the heterogeneity of patients with kidney failure suggests it is 
unlikely that a 'one-size-fits-all' approach for effective vascular access will 
be feasible in the current environment.

DOI: 10.1038/s41581-020-0333-2
PMCID: PMC8108319
PMID: 32839580 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests J.H.L. is the CEO of 
Humacyte, Inc. and is a co-founder of InnAVasc. L.E.N. is the founder of 
Humacyte, Inc. P.R.-C. is a consultant and adviser for WL Gore, BD, Medtronic, 
Cormedix, Humacyte, Akebia, Vifor-Relypsa and Bayer; the founder and Chief 
Scientific Officer of Inovasc LLC; the founding co-chair of the Kidney Health 
Initiative; and currently a member of the steering committee of the KidneyX 
Innovation Accelerator. P.R.-C. is also a co-PI on phase II of NIH Small 
Business award programs with Cylerus.


571. Psychol Med. 2022 Apr;52(6):1126-1134. doi: 10.1017/S0033291720002871. Epub
2020  Aug 25.

Executive deficits in schizophrenia: mediation by processing speed and its 
relationships with aging.

Thuaire F(1), Rondepierre F(2), Vallet GT(1), Jalenques I(3), Izaute M(1).

Author information:
(1)Université Clermont Auvergne, CNRS, LAPSCO, 34 avenue Carnot - TSA 
60401-63001 Clermont-Ferrand Cedex 1, Clermont-Ferrand, France.
(2)Service de Psychiatrie de l'Adulte A et Psychologie Médicale, Centre Mémoire 
de Ressources et de Recherche, CHU Clermont-Ferrand, Clermont-Ferrand, France.
(3)Service de Psychiatrie de l'Adulte A et Psychologie Médicale, Centre Mémoire 
de Ressources et de Recherche, CHU Clermont-Ferrand, Institut de Psychiatrie-GDR 
3557, Université Clermont Auvergne, Clermont-Ferrand, France.

BACKGROUND: Executive deficits are a core characteristic of schizophrenia. Yet, 
the origin of these impairments remains unclear as they may be caused by 
processing slowing. This issue is of particular interest for aging insofar as 
cognitive aging is also associated with a decline in executive functioning and a 
slowing of processing speed. As schizophrenia patients' life expectancy 
increases, a better understanding of the origin of older patients' cognitive 
deficits becomes essential so that healthcare can be adapted to suit them. This 
study aims to determine whether processing speed mediates how schizophrenia 
affects executive functions and whether these relationships are moderated by 
age.
METHODS: Sixty-two schizophrenia patients (27 women) and 62 healthy comparison 
subjects matched for age (range: 18-76 years), gender and education performed 
neurocognitive tests to evaluate their executive functions (shifting, updating, 
inhibition and access) and processing speed.
RESULTS: Processing speed mediated the effect of schizophrenia on the four 
specific executive functions, and age moderated this mediation for shifting, 
updating and access, but in different ways. Age moderated the effect of 
processing speed on shifting, the direct effect of schizophrenia on access, and 
both the effect of processing speed and the direct effect of schizophrenia on 
updating.
CONCLUSIONS: This research highlights the need to evaluate processing speed 
routinely during therapeutic follow-up, as it is easy and simple to assess and 
appears to be at the heart of the cognitive deficits in schizophrenia. Finally, 
processing speed abilities yield information about the evolution of cognition 
with aging in schizophrenia.

DOI: 10.1017/S0033291720002871
PMID: 32840193 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


572. Grassl Sci. 2011 Mar;57(1):58-64. doi: 10.1111/j.1744-697X.2010.00209.x.
Epub  2011 Feb 23.

Land degradation of abandoned croplands in the Xilingol steppe region, Inner 
Mongolia, China.

Kawada K(1)(2), Wuyunna(3), Nakamura T(2).

Author information:
(1) Alliance for Research on North Africa, University of Tsukuba, Tsukuba, 
Ibaraki, Japan.
(2) Graduate School of Life and Environmental Sciences, University of Tsukuba, 
Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan.
(3) Department of Environmental Engineering, College Life Science, Dalian 
Nationalities University, Dalian, China.

Steppe grasslands are distributed over vast areas in arid and semiarid regions 
of Eurasia. However, steppe grasslands face desertification or degradation 
caused by human over-activity. In the last decades, steppe regions have seen 
increased areas of crop cultivation and subsequent abandonment due to 
inappropriate agricultural management. Land degradation of abandoned croplands 
has become a common problem in the Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region, China. A 
field survey was conducted in the Xilingol steppe, and vegetation was classified 
into three groups. Based on comparisons of species composition and soil 
characters, group 1 represents steppe grassland, group 2 represents abandoned 
croplands and group 3 represents yardangs. The typical indicator species of 
steppe, abandoned croplands and yardangs are Leymus chinensis, Cleistogenes 
squarrosa and Elymus dahuricus, respectively. Abandoned croplands are exposed to 
wind and rain, resulting in soil erosion, which not only increases coarse sand 
content but also decreases total carbon and total nitrogen in the soil. We found 
that soil condition is an important factor affecting the early stages of 
secondary succession in abandoned croplands and that farming in typical steppes 
might contribute to land degradation. We concluded that abandoned croplands can 
be converted to yardangs by erosion. The extension of yardangs might then lead 
to desertification in steppe regions. Land managers should be aware that farming 
in typical steppes is associated with a risk of desertification. The degree of 
degradation of steppe can be measured by monitoring these indicator species.

© 2011 The Authors. Grassland Science © 2011 Japanese Society of Grassland 
Science.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1744-697X.2010.00209.x
PMCID: PMC7165941
PMID: 32840250


573. Rheumatology (Oxford). 2021 Feb 1;60(2):855-865. doi: 
10.1093/rheumatology/keaa315.

Global, regional, and national burden of other musculoskeletal disorders 
1990-2017: results from the Global Burden of Disease Study 2017.

Safiri S(1)(2)(3), Kolahi AA(4), Cross M(5), Carson-Chahhoud K(6), 
Almasi-Hashiani A(7), Kaufman J(8), Mansournia MA(9), Sepidarkish M(10), 
Ashrafi-Asgarabad A(11), Hoy D(5), Collins G(12), Woolf AD(13), March L(5), 
Smith E(5).

Author information:
(1)Social Determinants of Health Research Center, Department of Community 
Medicine, School of Medicine, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, 
Iran.
(2)Sports Medicine Research Center, Neuroscience Institute, Tehran University of 
Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(3)Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Research Center, Aging Research 
Institute, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran.
(4)Social Determinants of Health Research Center, Shahid Beheshti University of 
Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(5)Institute of Bone and Joint Research, Kolling Institute, Faculty of Medicine 
and Health, The University of Sydney, St Leonards, New South Wales, Australia.
(6)Australian Centre for Precision Health, School of Health Sciences, University 
of South Australia, Adelaide, South Australia, Australia.
(7)Department of Epidemiology, School of Health, Arak University of Medical 
Sciences, Arak, Iran.
(8)Department of Epidemiology, Biostatistics and Occupational Health, Faculty of 
Medicine, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.
(9)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, Tehran 
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(10)Department of Biostatistics and Epidemiology, Babol University of Medical 
Sciences, Babol, Iran.
(11)Department of Epidemiology, School of Health, Bam University of Medical 
Sciences, Bam, Iran.
(12)Centre for Statistics in Medicine, NDORMS, Botnar Research Centre, 
University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(13)Royal Cornwall Hospital and University of Exeter Medical School, Truro, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To describe the level and trends of point prevalence, deaths and 
disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) for other musculoskeletal (MSK) 
disorders, i.e. those not covered by specific estimates generated for RA, OA, 
low back pain, neck pain and gout, from 1990 to 2017 by age, sex and 
sociodemographic index.
METHODS: Publicly available modelled estimates from the Global Burden of Disease 
(GBD) 2017 study were extracted and reported as counts and age-standardized 
rates per 100 000 population for 195 countries and territories between 1990 and 
2017.
RESULTS: Globally, the age-standardized point prevalence estimates and deaths 
rates of other MSK disorders in 2017 were 4151.1 and 1.0 per 100 000. This was 
an increase of 3.4% and 7.2%, respectively. The age-standardized DALY rate in 
2017 was 380.2, an increase of 3.4%. The point prevalence estimate was higher 
among females and increased with age. This peaked in the 65-69 year age group 
for both females and males in 2017, followed by a decreasing trend for both 
sexes. At the national level, the highest age-standardized point prevalence 
estimates in 2017 were seen in Bangladesh, India and Nepal. The largest 
increases in age-standardized point prevalence estimates were observed in 
Romania, Croatia and Armenia.
CONCLUSION: The burden of other MSK disorders is proven to be substantial and 
increasing worldwide, with a notable intercountry variation. Data pertaining to 
specific diseases within this overarching category are required for future GBD 
MSK estimates. This would enable policymakers to better allocate resources and 
