Education, Building 8, 130 Dong An Road, Xuhui District, Shanghai, 200032, 
China. ybzhou@fudan.edu.cn.
(8)Fudan University Center for Tropical Disease Research, Building 8, 130 
Dong'an Road, Xuhui District, Shanghai, 200032, China. ybzhou@fudan.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Improvements of population health in China have been unevenly 
distributed among different sexes and regions. Mortality Registration System 
provides an opportunity for timely assessments of mortality trend and 
inequalities.
METHODS: Causes of death were reclassified following the method of Global Burden 
of Disease Study (GBD). Age-standardized mortality rate (ASMR) and ring-map of 
the rate by town were used to describe inequalities in changing mortality. Life 
expectancy (LE) and cause-deleted LE were calculated on the basis of life table 
technique.
RESULTS: The burden of death from 2002 to 2018 was dominated by cardiovascular 
diseases (CVD), neoplasms, chronic respiratory diseases and injuries in Jiading 
district, accounting for almost 80% of total deaths. The overall ASMR dropped 
from 407.6/100000 to 227.1/100000, and LE increased from 77.86 years to 
82.31 years. Women lived about 3.0-3.5 years longer than men. Besides, a cluster 
of lower LE was found for CVD in the southeast corner and one cluster for 
neoplasms in the southern corner of the district. The largest individual 
contributor to increment in LE was neoplasms, ranged from 2.41 to 3.63 years for 
males, and from 1.60 to 2.36 years for females.
CONCLUSIONS: Improvement in health was mainly attributed to the decline of 
deaths caused by CVD and neoplasms, but was distributed with sex and town. This 
study served as a reflection of health inequality, is conducive to formulate 
localized health policies and measures.

DOI: 10.1186/s12889-021-10323-9
PMCID: PMC7866752
PMID: 33546650 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


856. BMC Health Serv Res. 2021 Feb 5;21(1):121. doi: 10.1186/s12913-021-06098-9.

Cost burden and net monetary benefit loss of neonatal hypoglycaemia.

Glasgow MJ(1), Edlin R(2), Harding JE(3).

Author information:
(1)Liggins Institute, University of Auckland, Private Bag 92019, Grafton, 
Auckland, 1142, New Zealand.
(2)School of Population Health, University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand.
(3)Liggins Institute, University of Auckland, Private Bag 92019, Grafton, 
Auckland, 1142, New Zealand. j.harding@auckland.ac.nz.

BACKGROUND: Neonatal hypoglycaemia is a common but treatable metabolic disorder 
that affects newborn infants and which, if not identified and treated 
adequately, may result in neurological sequelae that persist for the lifetime of 
the patient. The long-term financial and quality-of-life burden of neonatal 
hypoglycaemia has not been previously examined.
METHODS: We assessed the postnatal hospital and long-term costs associated with 
neonatal hypoglycaemia over 80 year and 18 year time horizons, using a 
health-system perspective and assessing impact on quality of life using 
quality-adjusted life year (QALYs). A decision analytic model was used to 
represent key outcomes in the presence and absence of neonatal hypoglycaemia.
RESULTS: The chance of developing one of the outcomes of neonatal hypoglycaemia 
in our model (cerebral palsy, learning disabilities, seizures, vision disorders) 
was 24.03% in subjects who experienced neonatal hypoglycaemia and 3.56% in those 
who do did not. Over an 80 year time horizon a subject who experienced neonatal 
hypoglycaemia had a combined hospital and post-discharge cost of NZ$72,000 due 
to the outcomes modelled, which is NZ$66,000 greater than a subject without 
neonatal hypoglycaemia. The net monetary benefit lost due to neonatal 
hypoglycaemia, using a value per QALY of NZ$43,000, is NZ$180,000 over an 
80 year time horizon.
CONCLUSIONS: Even under the most conservative of estimates, neonatal 
hypoglycaemia contributes a significant financial burden to the health system 
both during childhood and over a lifetime. The combination of direct costs and 
loss of quality of life due to neonatal hypoglycaemia means that this condition 
warrants further research to focus on prevention and effective treatment.

DOI: 10.1186/s12913-021-06098-9
PMCID: PMC7863541
PMID: 33546675 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Author Richard Edlin is an editorial board 
member. The authors declare that they have no other competing interests.


857. J Econ Entomol. 2021 Apr 13;114(2):638-651. doi: 10.1093/jee/toaa327.

Impact of Constant and Fluctuating Temperatures on Population Characteristics of 
Tetranychus pacificus (Acari: Tetranychidae).

Rismayani(1)(2), Ullah MS(1)(3), Chi H(4), Gotoh T(1)(5).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Applied Entomology and Zoology, Faculty of Agriculture, Ibaraki 
University, Ami, Ibaraki, Japan.
(2)Indonesian Spices and Medicinal Crops Research Institute (ISMCRI), Bogor, 
West-Java, Indonesia.
(3)Laboratory of Applied Entomology and Acarology, Department of Entomology, 
Bangladesh Agricultural University, Mymensingh, Bangladesh.
(4)Laboratory of Theoretical Ecology, Department of Entomology, National Chung 
Hsing University, Taichung, Taiwan, Republic of China.
(5)Faculty of Economics, Ryutsu Keizai University, Ryugasaki, Ibaraki, Japan.

To understand the effect of fluctuating temperature on the population 
characteristics of Tetranychus pacificus, we determined their life tables under 
constant temperatures between 10 and 35°C and fluctuating temperatures (12 h per 
day at each of 5°C above and 5°C below the corresponding constant temperature). 
Tetranychus pacificus eggs did not hatch when held at a constant temperature of 
10°C, whereas 77.6% of the T. pacificus eggs reached an adult life stage at 
fluctuating temperature 10°C ± 5°C. Female preadult development was faster under 
fluctuating temperatures 12.5, 15, and 20°C than under constant temperatures, 
whereas it was not significantly different at temperatures ≥ 22.5°C. The lower 
developmental thresholds (T0) for female preadult development were 10.24 and 
5.73°C for the constant and fluctuating temperatures, respectively, while the 
thermal summations (K) were 215.10 and 265.64 degree days, respectively. The net 
reproductive rates (R0) at constant temperatures 15 and 35°C were significantly 
higher than those at the corresponding fluctuating temperatures. However, for 
20, 25, and 30°C, the R0 values were not significantly different between 
constant and fluctuating temperatures. The intrinsic rate of increase (r) and 
finite rate of increase (λ) at fluctuating temperatures 10, 20, and 30°C were 
higher compared to the corresponding constant temperature. However, the values 
of r and λ at constant 25 and 35°C were higher than those at fluctuating 
temperature. The differential responses of life history between constant and 
fluctuating temperatures help to understand the population dynamics of T. 
pacificus under natural conditions.

© The Author(s) 2021. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of 
Entomological Society of America. All rights reserved. For permissions, please 
e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jee/toaa327
PMID: 33547783 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


858. AIDS Behav. 2021 Sep;25(9):2973-2984. doi: 10.1007/s10461-021-03169-0. Epub
2021  Feb 6.

Modeling Adherence Interventions Among Youth with HIV in the United States: 
Clinical and Economic Projections.

Neilan AM(1)(2)(3)(4), Bangs AC(5), Hudgens M(6), Patel K(7), Agwu AL(8), 
Bassett IV(9)(5)(10)(11), Gaur AH(12), Hyle EP(9)(5)(10)(11), Crespi CM(13), 
Horvath KJ(14), Dugdale CM(9)(5), Powers KA(15), Rendina HJ(16), Weinstein 
MC(17), Walensky RP(9)(5)(10)(11), Freedberg KA(9)(5)(10)(11)(18), Ciaranello 
AL(9)(5)(10)(11).

Author information:
(1)Division of General Academic Pediatrics, Department of Pediatrics, 
Massachusetts General Hospital, 100 Cambridge Street, Suite 1600, Boston, MA, 
02114, USA. aneilan@mgh.harvard.edu.
(2)Division of Infectious Diseases, Department of Medicine, Massachusetts 
General Hospital, Boston, MA, USA. aneilan@mgh.harvard.edu.
(3)Medical Practice Evaluation Center, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 
MA, USA. aneilan@mgh.harvard.edu.
(4)Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA. aneilan@mgh.harvard.edu.
(5)Medical Practice Evaluation Center, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 
MA, USA.
(6)Department of Biostatistics, Gillings School of Global Public Health, 
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.
(7)Department of Epidemiology and Center for Biostatistics in AIDS Research, 
Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, Boston, MA, USA.
(8)Department of Pediatrics and Medicine, Division of Infectious Diseases, Johns 
Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(9)Division of Infectious Diseases, Department of Medicine, Massachusetts 
General Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.
(10)Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
(11)Harvard University Center for AIDS Research, Cambridge, MA, USA.
(12)St. Jude's Children's Research Hospital, Memphis, TN, USA.
(13)Department of Biostatistics, Fielding School of Public Health, University of 
California Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(14)Department of Psychology, San Diego State University, San Diego, CA, USA.
(15)Department of Epidemiology, Gillings School of Global Public Health, 
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.
(16)Department of Psychology, Hunter College of the City University of New York, 
New York, NY, USA.
(17)Department of Health Policy and Management, Harvard T.H. Chan School of 
Public Health, Boston, MA, USA.
(18)Division of General Internal Medicine, Department of Medicine, Massachusetts 
General Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.

The Adolescent Medicine Trials Network for HIV/AIDS Interventions is evaluating 
treatment adherence interventions (AI) to improve virologic suppression (VS) 
among youth with HIV (YWH). Using a microsimulation model, we compared two 
strategies: standard-of-care (SOC) and a hypothetical 12-month AI that increased 
cohort-level VS in YWH in care by an absolute ten percentage points and cost 
$100/month/person. Projected outcomes included primary HIV transmissions, deaths 
and life-expectancy, lifetime HIV-related costs, and incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs, $/quality-adjusted life-year [QALY]). Compared 
to SOC, AI would reduce HIV transmissions by 15% and deaths by 12% at 12 months. 
AI would improve discounted life expectancy/person by 8 months at an added 
lifetime cost/person of $5,300, resulting in an ICER of $7,900/QALY. AI would be 
cost-effective at $2,000/month/person or with efficacies as low as a 1 
percentage point increase in VS. YWH-targeted adherence interventions with even 
modest efficacy could improve life expectancy, prevent onward HIV transmissions, 
and be cost-effective.

Publisher: La Red de Ensayos Médicos sobre Adolescentes para Realizar 
Intervenciones sobre el VIH/SIDA está evaluando intervenciones de adherencia 
(IAs) al tratamiento para mejorar la supresión virológica (SV) entre los jóvenes 
con VIH (JCV). Usando un modelo de microsimulación, comparamos dos estrategias: 
cuidado convencional (CC) y una intervención de adherencia hipotética durando 12 
meses que aumentaría la SV a nivel de cohorte entre JCV en tratamiento por 10 
puntos de porcentuales y que costaría US$ 100/mes/persona. Resultados 
proyectados incluyeron transmisiones de VIH primarias, muertes y esperanza de 
vida, costos de por vida asociados con el VIH, y razones incrementales de 
costo-efectividad (RICEs, $/año de vida ajustado por la calidad [AVAC]). 
Comparado al CC, la IA reduciría transmisiones de VIH por 15% y muertes por 12% 
a los 12 meses. La IA mejoraría esperanza de vida descontada/persona por 8 meses 
a un costo de por vida adicional/persona de US$ 5.300, resultando en una RICE de 
US$ 7.900/AVAC. La IA sería costo-efectiva a un costo de US$ 2.000/mes/persona o 
si mejorara SV por al menos un punto porcentual. Intervenciones de adherencia 
dirigidas a jóvenes con una eficacia incluso modesta podrían mejorar esperanza 
de vida, prevenir transmisiones de VIH, y ser costo-efectivas.

© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s10461-021-03169-0
PMCID: PMC8342630
PMID: 33547993 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


859. Eur J Epidemiol. 2021 Dec;36(12):1219-1223. doi: 10.1007/s10654-021-00724-w.
 Epub 2021 Feb 6.

Tombstone size and life expectancy: a cross-sectional analysis of cemetery data 
before the turn of the century.

Kang-Auger S(1), Kang-Auger M(1), Kang-Auger G(2), Ayoub A(3)(4), Auger 
N(5)(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)The Study School, Montreal, QC, Canada.
(2)Faculty of Medicine, University of Montreal, Montreal, QC, Canada.
(3)University of Montreal Hospital Research Centre, Department of Social and 
Preventive Medicine, University of Montreal, Montreal, QC, Canada.
(4)Institut national de santé publique du Québec, Montreal, QC, Canada.
(5)University of Montreal Hospital Research Centre, Department of Social and 
Preventive Medicine, University of Montreal, Montreal, QC, Canada. 
nathalie.auger@inspq.qc.ca.
(6)Institut national de santé publique du Québec, Montreal, QC, Canada. 
nathalie.auger@inspq.qc.ca.
(7)Department of Epidemiology, Biostatistics, and Occupational Health, McGill 
University, Montreal, QC, Canada. nathalie.auger@inspq.qc.ca.

The extent to which socioeconomic status was associated with life expectancy in 
the 19th and early part of the twentieth century is poorly understood. We sought 
to determine the association between a deceased individual's tombstone size, a 
potential marker of socioeconomic status, and their age of death in the late 
modern period. We conducted a cross-sectional study of 276 deceased individuals 
buried between 1820 and 1992 in a large cemetery in Quebec, Canada. The main 
outcome measure was age of death. We used generalized linear models adjusted for 
sex, marital status, and year of death to determine whether tombstone height and 
volume were associated with a greater number of years lived. Tombstone height 
and volume were associated with an older age of death in adjusted regression 
models. Individuals with tall tombstones lived 9.6 years longer than those with 
short tombstones (95% confidence interval, CI 3.9 to 15.4). Individuals with 
large volume tombstones lived 6.2 years longer than those with small tombstones 
(95% CI 1.7 to 10.8). Our findings indicate that in the 1800s and early 1900s, 
tombstone size was strongly associated with age of death. A possible explanation 
for this occurrence is that wealthy individuals, capable of purchasing more 
sizeable tombstones, were more likely to live a longer and healthier life.

© 2021. Springer Nature B.V.

DOI: 10.1007/s10654-021-00724-w
PMID: 33548001 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


860. J Am Med Dir Assoc. 2021 Apr;22(4):792-802.e2. doi:
10.1016/j.jamda.2020.12.036.  Epub 2021 Feb 3.

Cost-effectiveness of a Diet and Resistance Exercise Intervention in 
Community-Dwelling Older Adults: ProMuscle in Practice.

Dorhout BG(1), Haveman-Nies A(2), van Dongen EJI(3), Wezenbeek NLW(4), Doets 
EL(3), Bulten A(4), de Wit GA(5), de Groot LCPGM(4).

Author information:
(1)Division of Human Nutrition and Health, Wageningen University and Research, 
the Netherlands. Electronic address: berber.dorhout@wur.nl.
(2)Chair group Consumption and Healthy Lifestyles, Wageningen University and 
Research, the Netherlands; GGD Noord- en Oost-Gelderland, Academic Collaborative 
Center AGORA, Zutphen, the Netherlands.
(3)Food, Health and Consumer Research, Wageningen Food and Biobased Research, 
Wageningen, the Netherlands.
(4)Division of Human Nutrition and Health, Wageningen University and Research, 
the Netherlands.
(5)Julius Center for Health Sciences and Primary Care, University Medical Center 
Utrecht, Utrecht University, Utrecht, the Netherlands.

OBJECTIVES: Ageing is associated with a decline in functioning and a loss of 
independence, which will lead to increased health care costs in the future. The 
ProMuscle in Practice intervention was found to be effective in improving muscle 
strength, muscle mass, and functioning of older adults. The current study 
assesses the cost-effectiveness and perceived benefits of the intervention.
DESIGN: Trial-based cost-effectiveness analysis complemented by interviews.
SETTING AND PARTICIPANTS: A total of 168 community-dwelling older adults were 
included. Intervention participants started with a 12-week intensive support 
program, comprising resistance exercise guided by physiotherapists and 
consultations with a dietitian to increase protein intake. To maintain the 
adapted lifestyle pattern, they continued with a 12-week moderate support 
intervention. The control group received usual care.
METHODS: Costs and outcomes were measured at baseline, after 12 and 24 weeks. 
Costs were assessed from a societal perspective. Health care use, out-of-pocket 
costs, and productivity losses were measured using questionnaires. Intervention 
costs were quantified according to bottom-up micro-costing. Outcomes included 
quality of life (EQ-5D-5L) and physical functioning (Short Physical Performance 
Battery [SPPB]). Bootstrap analyses were used to generate cost-effectiveness 
planes and acceptability curves. Interviews with participants and professionals 
were conducted after 24 weeks to measure perceived benefits.
RESULTS: An Incremental Cost-Effectiveness Ratio of €2988 ($3385)/point increase 
in SPPB was found. The intervention has an 82.4% probability of being 
cost-effective at a willingness to pay (WTP) of €12.000 ($13.559)/point increase 
in SPPB. No change in quality of life was found according to EQ-5D-5L. 
Interviews, however, revealed a wide range of function-related perceived 
benefits.
CONCLUSIONS AND IMPLICATIONS: At a WTP of €12.000 ($13.559)/point increase in 
SPPB, the intervention was found to have an 82.4% probability of being 
cost-effective. Because generic quality of life questionnaires seem unable to 
detect subtle changes in public health interventions, future studies are advised 
to include targeted and specific questionnaires.

Copyright © 2021 AMDA – The Society for Post-Acute and Long-Term Care Medicine. 
Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jamda.2020.12.036
PMID: 33548182 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


861. J Vasc Surg. 2021 Aug;74(2):383-395. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2020.12.098. Epub
2021  Feb 4.

Preoperative functional status predicts 2-year mortality in patients undergoing 
fenestrated/branched endovascular aneurysm repair.

Flanagan CP(1), Crawford AS(2), Arous EJ(2), Aiello FA(2), Schanzer A(2), Simons 
JP(3).

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular and Endovascular Surgery, Department of Surgery, 
University of California, San Francisco, Calif.
(2)UMassMemorial Center for Complex Aortic Disease, University of Massachusetts 
Medical School, Worcester, Mass.
(3)UMassMemorial Center for Complex Aortic Disease, University of Massachusetts 
Medical School, Worcester, Mass. Electronic address: 
jessica.simons@umassmemorial.org.

BACKGROUND: Fenestrated/branched endovascular aneurysm repair (F/BEVAR) is a 
minimally invasive alternative for patients at high risk of open repair of 
complex aortic aneurysms. Nearly all investigative study protocols evaluating 
F/BEVAR have required a predicted life expectancy of >2 years for study 
inclusion. However, accurate risk models for predicting 2-year survival in this 
patient population are lacking. We sought to identify the preoperative 
predictors of 2-year survival for patients undergoing F/BEVAR.
METHODS: The prospectively collected data for all consecutive F/BEVAR 
procedures, performed in an institutional review board-approved registry and/or 
a physician-sponsored investigational device exemption (IDE) trial (IDE no. 
G130210), were reviewed (November 2010 to February 2019). We assessed 44 
preoperative patient characteristics, including comorbidities, preoperative 
functional status, aneurysm morphologies, and repair techniques. Preoperative 
functional status was defined as totally dependent (any impairment in activities 
of daily living or residing in a skilled nursing facility), partially dependent 
(any impairment in instrumental activities of daily living), or independent (no 
impairment in activities of daily living or instrumental activities of daily 
living). Using the results of univariate analysis (P < .2), a Cox proportional 
hazards model was constructed to identify the independent predictors of 2-year 
all-cause mortality.
RESULTS: For the 256 consecutive patients who had undergone F/BEVAR (6 common 
iliac [2.3%], 94 juxtarenal [41%], 35 pararenal [14%], 119 thoracoabdominal 
[47%], and 2 arch [0.8%] aneurysms), the 2-year mortality was 18%. On Cox 
modeling, the only independent preoperative predictor contributing to 2-year 
mortality was functional status (totally dependent: hazard ratio [HR], 5.4; 95% 
confidence interval [CI], 1.8-16; P = .0024; partially dependent: HR, 4.5; 95% 
CI, 2.4-8.7; P < .0000019). A history of an implanted anti-arrhythmic device was 
protective (HR, 0.4; 95% CI, 0.2-0.99; P = .0495). Factors such as age, 
congestive heart failure, chronic kidney disease, diabetes, chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease, aneurysm extent, and previous aortic surgery, were not 
significant. The 2-year mortality for the independent (n = 176; 69%), partially 
dependent (n = 69; 27%), and totally dependent (n = 10; 3.9%) groups was 11%, 
33%, and 40%, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: For patients undergoing F/BEVAR, decreased preoperative functional 
status was the strongest predictor of 2-year mortality, with totally dependent 
patients experiencing poor survival. The traditional risk factors were not 
independently significant, perhaps reflecting the high prevalence of severe 
chronic illness in these high-risk patients participating in an IDE trial. For 
the independent patients, the 2-year F/BEVAR survival rate was 89%, equivalent 
to patient survival after infrarenal EVAR. Therefore, for independent patients, 
it would be reasonable to expand the indication for F/BEVAR to low-risk 
patients.

Copyright © 2021 Society for Vascular Surgery. Published by Elsevier Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2020.12.098
PMID: 33548435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


862. Neuroimage. 2021 May 1;231:117779. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2021.117779.
Epub  2021 Feb 4.

The role of thickness inhomogeneities in hierarchical cortical folding.

Costa Campos LD(1), Hornung R(2), Gompper G(2), Elgeti J(3), Caspers S(4).

Author information:
(1)Theoretical Physics of Living Matter, Institute of Biological Information 
Processing (IBI-5), Research Centre Jülich, Jülich, Germany; Institute of 
Neuroscience and Medicine (INM-1), Research Centre Jülich, Jülich, Germany.
(2)Theoretical Physics of Living Matter, Institute of Biological Information 
Processing (IBI-5), Research Centre Jülich, Jülich, Germany.
(3)Theoretical Physics of Living Matter, Institute of Biological Information 
Processing (IBI-5), Research Centre Jülich, Jülich, Germany. Electronic address: 
j.elgeti@fz-juelich.de.
(4)Institute of Neuroscience and Medicine (INM-1), Research Centre Jülich, 
Jülich, Germany; Institute for Anatomy I, Medical Faculty & University Hospital 
Düsseldorf, Heinrich-Heine-University Düsseldorf, Düsseldorf, Germany. 
Electronic address: s.caspers@fz-juelich.de.

The mammalian brain cortex is highly folded, with several developmental 
disorders affecting folding. On the extremes, lissencephaly, a lack of folds in 
humans, and polymicrogyria, an overly folded brain, can lead to severe mental 
retardation, short life expectancy, epileptic seizures, and tetraplegia. Not 
only a specific degree of folding, but also stereotyped patterns, are required 
for normal brain function. A quantitative model on how and why these folds 
appear during the development of the brain is the first step in understanding 
the cause of these conditions. In recent years, there have been various attempts 
to understand and model the mechanisms of brain folding. Previous works have 
shown that mechanical instabilities play a crucial role in the formation of 
brain folds, and that the geometry of the fetal brain is one of the main factors 
in dictating its folding characteristics. However, modeling higher-order 
folding, one of the main characteristics of the highly gyrencephalic brain, has 
not been fully tackled. The simulations presented in this work are used to study 
the effects of thickness inhomogeneity in the gyrogenesis of the mammalian brain 
in silico. Finite-element simulations of rectangular slabs are performed. These 
slabs are divided into two distinct regions, where the outer region mimicks the 
gray matter, and the inner region the underlying white matter. Differential 
growth is introduced by growing the top region tangentially, while keeping the 
underlying region untouched. The brain tissue is modeled as a neo-Hookean 
hyperelastic material. Simulations are performed with both homogeneous and 
inhomogeneous cortical thicknesses. Our results show that the homogeneous cortex 
folds into a single wavelength, as is common for bilayered materials, while the 
inhomogeneous cortex folds into more complex conformations. In the early stages 
of development of the inhomogeneous cortex, structures reminiscent of the deep 
sulci in the brain are obtained. As the cortex continues to develop, secondary 
undulations, which are shallower and more variable than the structures obtained 
in earlier gyrification stage emerge, reproducing well-known characteristics of 
higher-order folding in the mammalian, and particularly the human, brain.

Copyright © 2021 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2021.117779
PMID: 33548459 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


863. Dtsch Arztebl Int. 2021 Apr 2;118(Forthcoming):228-36. doi: 
10.3238/arztebl.m2021.0026. Online ahead of print.

Options for Curative Treatment of Localized Prostate Cancer.

Knipper S, Ott S, Schlemmer HP, Grimm MO, Graefen M, Wiegel T.

BACKGROUND: Prostate cancer is the most frequently occurring malignancy among 
men in Germany, with 60 000 new cases each year. Three of every four tumors are 
detected at an early, localized stage, when various curative treatment 
strategies are possible.
METHODS: A selective search of the literature in PubMed accompanied by 
consideration of guidelines from Germany and other countries.
RESULTS: Owing to the usually prolonged natural course of localized prostate 
cancer, local treatment is recommended for patients with a life expectancy of at 
least 10 years. The established treatments with curative intent are radical 
prostatectomy, percutaneous radiotherapy, and brachytherapy, with active 
surveillance as a further option for patients with low-risk disease. The 
eventual choice of treatment is determined by tumor stage, risk group, 
comorbidities, and patient preference. Conversations with the patient must cover 
not only the oncological outcome but also the potential adverse effects of the 
different treatment options. Depending on the procedure, urinary incontinence, 
erectile dysfunction, and inflammation of the bladder and/or rectum may be 
frequently occurring complications.
CONCLUSION: A number of curative and other treatments are available for patients 
with localized prostate cancer. The goal is to identify the appropriate option 
for each individual patient by means of detailed discussion.

DOI: 10.3238/arztebl.m2021.0026
PMCID: PMC8572540
PMID: 33549154


864. Gerontology. 2021;67(3):314-319. doi: 10.1159/000513245. Epub 2021 Feb 5.

Survival Analysis of Geriatric Patients with Low Digestive Hemorrhage Attending 
an Emergency Department.

Fernandez-Suárez A(1), Yuguero Torres O(2).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, University of Lleida, Lleida, Spain.
(2)Faculty of Medicine, University of Lleida, Lleida, Spain, 
oriol.yuguero@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: The increase in life expectancy and low mortality have doubled the 
number of individuals older than 65 in the last 30 years.
METHODS: We conducted a retrospective study of 101 patients older than 80 years 
of age treated by low digestive hemorrhage (LDH) in an emergency department 
during 2018. Sociodemographic variables were evaluated, as well as comorbidity 
and survival at 18 months. Survival was assessed by a Kaplan-Meier test.
RESULTS: 52.5% of the subjects were women. The average comorbidity of the sample 
was 1.97. The survival rate per year was 60%. The finding on colonoscopy shows 
no association with mortality. However, those patients on 
anticoagulant/antiplatelet therapy have a higher survival rate.
CONCLUSION: Survival per year is high, so urgent colonoscopy for an LDH should 
be performed after evaluating the patient's stability and functional status in a 
scheduled and outpatient manner.

© 2021 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000513245
PMID: 33550287 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


865. Dev Med Child Neurol. 2021 Jul;63(7):816-823. doi: 10.1111/dmcn.14825. Epub
2021  Feb 6.

Parents' perspectives on nusinersen treatment for children with spinal muscular 
atrophy.

van Kruijsbergen M(1), Schröder CD(1)(2), Ketelaar M(1), van der Pol WL(3), 
Cuppen I(3), van der Geest A(1)(4), Asselman FL(3), Fischer MJ(1), Visser-Meily 
JMA(1)(4), Kars MC(5).

Author information:
(1)Center of Excellence in Rehabilitation Medicine, UMC Utrecht Brain Center and 
De Hoogstraat Rehabilitation, University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht 
University, Utrecht, the Netherlands.
(2)Ecare4you, Amersfoort, the Netherlands.
(3)UMC Utrecht Brain Center, Department of Neurology, University Medical Center 
Utrecht, Utrecht University, Utrecht, the Netherlands.
(4)Department of Rehabilitation, Physical Therapy Science & Sports, University 
Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht University, Utrecht, the Netherlands.
(5)Center of Expertise in Palliative Care, Julius Center for Health Sciences and 
Primary Care, University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht University, Utrecht, 
the Netherlands.

AIM: To gain insight into parents' perspectives about their decision-making 
process concerning nusinersen treatment for their child, including perceived 
needs and concerns, and to explore factors that influence this process.
METHOD: This was an exploratory qualitative interview study among parents of 
children with spinal muscular atrophy types 1 to 3. Data were analysed using 
inductive thematic analysis.
RESULTS: Nineteen parents of 16 children representing 13 families participated. 
A wide variety of perspectives was reported ranging from a biomedical approach, 
which focused on battling the disease, to a holistic approach, which aimed for a 
good quality of life for their child. The most important factors that helped 
parents to decide were honest and neutral communication with their physician and 
access to available information.
INTERPRETATION: It is important physicians understand that there are different 
perspectives influencing the decision-making process. Physicians should create 
an environment that allows parents to accept or reject treatment by 
communicating honestly and openly with them and by discussing both options 
extensively. Clear information about pros and cons, recent developments in 
research, and the experiences of other parents should be made available to 
enable parents to make an informed decision. What this paper adds Parents 
perceived different needs and concerns about nusinersen treatment, which 
emphasized individual differences. Parents' perspectives varied from battling 
the disease to preserving quality of life. Life expectancy, stopping 
deterioration, and improving quality of life were the perceived benefits of 
nusinersen treatment. Open communication about the pros and cons of treatment 
with clinicians facilitated decision-making. Clear and honest information 
facilitated the alignment of values and goals.

OBJETIVO: Obtener una idea de las perspectivas de los padres sobre su proceso de 
toma de decisiones sobre el tratamiento nusinersen para su hijo, incluidas las 
necesidades y preocupaciones percibidas, y explorar los factores que influyen en 
este proceso.
MÉTODO: Este fue un estudio exploratorio de entrevistas cualitativas entre 
padres de niños con atrofia muscular espinal tipos 1 a 3. Los datos se 
analizaron mediante análisis temático inductivo.
RESULTADOS: Participaron diecinueve padres de 16 niños que representan a 13 
familias. Se informó una amplia variedad de perspectivas que van desde un 
enfoque biomédico, que se centró en la lucha contra la enfermedad, hasta un 
enfoque holístico, que apunta a una buena calidad de vida para su hijo. Los 
factores más importantes que ayudaron a los padres a decidir fueron la 
comunicación honesta y neutral con su médico y el acceso a la información 
disponible.
INTERPRETACIÓN: Es importante que los médicos comprendan que existen diferentes 
perspectivas que influyen en el proceso de toma de decisiones. Los médicos deben 
crear un entorno que les permita a los padres aceptar o rechazar el tratamiento 
comunicándose honesta y abiertamente con ellos y discutiendo ampliamente ambas 
opciones. Se debe proporcionar información clara sobre los pros y los contras, 
los avances recientes en la investigación y las experiencias de otros padres 
para que los padres puedan tomar una decisión informada.

OBJETIVO: Obter informações sobe as perspectivas dos pais sobre seu processo de 
tomada de decisão relativa ao tratamento com nusinersen para sua criança, 
incluindo necessidades e preocupações percebidas, e explorar fatores que 
influenciam este processo.
MÉTODO: Este foi um estudo exploratório com entrevista qualitativa entre pais de 
crianças com atrofia muscular espinhal tipos 1 a 3. Os dados foram analisados 
usando análise temática indutiva.
RESULTADOS: Dezenove pais de 16 crianças representando 13 famílias participaram. 
Uma ampla variedade de perspectivas foi reportada, variando de uma abordagem 
biomédica, que focou no combate à doença, a uma abordagem holística, que visava 
uma boa qualidade de vida para a criança. Os fatores mais importantes que 
ajudaram os pais a decidir foram a comunicação honesta com o médico e acesso a 
informação disponível.
INTERPRETAÇÃO: É importante que médicos compreendam que há diferentes 
perspectivas influenciando o processo de tomada de decisões. Os médicos devem 
criar um ambiente que permita aos pais aceitar ou rejeitar o tratamento por meio 
de comunicação honesta e aberta com eles, e por meio de discussão extensiva de 
ambas as opções. A informação clara sobre os pós e contra, desenvolvimentos 
recentes de pesquisas, e experiências de outros pais deve ser disponibilizada 
para permitir aos pais tomar uma decisão informada.

© 2021 The Authors. Developmental Medicine & Child Neurology published by John 
Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Mac Keith Press.

DOI: 10.1111/dmcn.14825
PMCID: PMC8248060
PMID: 33550591 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


866. Res Aging. 2022 Jan;44(1):73-82. doi: 10.1177/0164027521992690. Epub 2021
Feb 8.

Perceived Life Expectancy Predicts Time Investment in Productive Aging 
Activities: An Ecological Momentary Assessment Study.

Luo H(1)(2), Wong GHY(1), Tang JYM(1), Liu T(1), Wong FHC(1), Miu AC(3), 
Morrow-Howell N(4), Cheng ST(5)(6), Lum TYS(1)(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Work and Social Administration, 25809The University of 
Hong Kong, Pok Fu Lam, Hong Kong.
(2)Department of Computer Science, 25809The University of Hong Kong, Pok Fu Lam, 
Hong Kong.
(3)139058Columbia University School of Social Work, New York, NY, USA.
(4)Brown School of Social Work, 7548Washington University in St. Louis, MO, USA.
(5)Department of Health and Physical Education, 77649The Education University of 
Hong Kong, Ting Kok, Hong Kong.
(6)Department of Clinical Psychology, Norwich Medical School, University of East 
Anglia, Norwich, UK.
(7)Sau Po Centre on Ageing, 25809The University of Hong Kong, Pok Fu Lam, Hong 
Kong.

OBJECTIVES: Despite known benefits of productive aging, it is unclear what 
explains time allocation in productive activities. We investigated whether 
productive engagement in older people can be explained by their age, health, 
socioeconomic status, and perceived life expectancy in Hong Kong.
METHODS: We interviewed 390 community-dwelling older persons for their health 
and perceived life expectancy, followed by a 7-day ecological momentary 
assessment to record their activities.
RESULTS: A total of 366 participants who completed the study (age 75 ± 8.3 
years; 79% women) reported an average perceived life expectancy of nearly 10 
years. The majority (59%) engaged in productive activities. Estimates of the 
structural equation model (RMSEA = 0.046) showed that age and health were 
associated with productive engagement, mediated by perceived life expectancy.
DISCUSSION AND IMPLICATIONS: Future efforts in promoting productive aging and 
related research should include interventions addressing perceived life 
expectancy, a potentially modifiable factor.

DOI: 10.1177/0164027521992690
PMID: 33550934 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


867. Bull World Health Organ. 2021 Feb 1;99(2):102-111B. doi:
10.2471/BLT.20.270033.  Epub 2020 Nov 4.

Intergovernmental engagement on health impacts of climate change.

Dasandi N(1), Graham H(2), Lampard P(2), Jankin Mikhaylov S(3).

Author information:
(1)International Development Department, University of Birmingham, 1143 Muirhead 
Tower, Birmingham B15 2TT, England.
(2)Department of Health Sciences, University of York, York, England.
(3)Data Science Lab, Hertie School, Berlin, Germany.

OBJECTIVE: To examine countries' engagement with the health impacts of climate 
change in their formal statements to intergovernmental organizations, and the 
factors driving engagement.
METHODS: We obtained the texts of countries' annual statements in United Nations 
(UN) general debates from 2000 to 2019 and their nationally determined 
contributions at the Paris Agreement in 2016. To measure countries' engagement, 
we used a keyword-in-context text search with relevant search terms to count the 
total number of references to the relationship of health to climate change. We 
used a machine learning model (random forest predictions) to identify the most 
important country-level predictors of engagement. The predictors included 
political and economic factors, health outcomes, climate change-related 
variables and membership of political negotiating groups in the UN.
FINDINGS: For both UN general debate statements and nationally determined 
contributions, low- and middle-income countries discussed the health impacts of 
climate change much more than did high-income countries. The most important 
predictors of engagement were health outcomes (infant mortality, maternal 
deaths, life expectancy), countries' income levels (gross domestic product per 
capita), and fossil fuel consumption. Membership of political negotiating groups 
(such as the Group of 77 and Small Island Developing States) was a less 
important predictor.
CONCLUSION: Our analysis indicated a higher engagement in countries that carry 
the heaviest climate-related health burdens, but lack necessary resources to 
address the impacts of climate change. These countries are shouldering 
responsibility for reminding the global community of the implications of climate 
change for people's health.

Publisher: OBJECTIF: Étudier l'engagement des pays vis-à-vis de l'impact 
sanitaire du changement climatique au travers de leurs déclarations officielles 
aux organisations intergouvernementales, et les facteurs qui sous-tendent cet 
engagement.
MÉTHODES: Nous nous sommes procuré les textes des déclarations annuelles des 
pays au débat général de l'Organisation des Nations Unies (ONU) entre 2000 et 
2019, ainsi que les contributions à l'Accord de Paris déterminées au niveau 
national en 2016. Pour évaluer l'engagement de chacun d'eux, nous avons mené une 
recherche par mots-clés en contexte avec des termes pertinents qui nous ont 
permis de compter le nombre total de références aux liens établis entre santé et 
changement climatique. Nous avons employé un modèle d'apprentissage automatique 
(prédictions par forêts aléatoires) afin d'identifier les principaux indicateurs 
d'engagement à l'échelle nationale. Parmi ces indicateurs figuraient notamment 
les facteurs économiques et politiques, les conséquences pour la santé, les 
variables relatives au changement climatique et l'appartenance aux groupes de 
négociation politique au sein de l'ONU.
RÉSULTATS: Tant pour les déclarations lors des débats de l'ONU que pour les 
contributions fixées au niveau national, les pays à faible et moyen revenu ont 
nettement plus souvent abordé l'impact sanitaire du changement climatique que 
les pays à haut revenu. Les indicateurs d'engagement majeurs étaient les 
conséquences pour la santé (mortalité infantile, décès maternels, espérance de 
vie), le niveau de revenu des pays (produit intérieur brut par habitant) et la 
consommation d'énergie fossile. En revanche, la participation aux groupes de 
négociation politique (tels que le Groupe des 77 et les petits États insulaires 
en développement) a eu moins de poids.
CONCLUSION: Notre analyse révèle un plus grand engagement dans les pays qui 
paient le plus lourd tribut au changement climatique, mais ne possèdent pas les 
ressources nécessaires pour faire face à l'impact qu'il exerce. Ces pays 
assument la responsabilité de rappeler à la communauté internationale quelles 
sont les répercussions du changement climatique sur la santé des populations.

Publisher: OBJETIVO: Analizar la participación de los países en los efectos del 
cambio climático sobre la salud en sus declaraciones oficiales ante las 
organizaciones intergubernamentales, así como los factores que motivan esa 
participación.
MÉTODOS: Se obtuvieron los textos de las declaraciones anuales de los países en 
los debates generales de las Naciones Unidas (ONU) de 2000 a 2019 y sus 
contribuciones establecidas a nivel nacional en el Acuerdo de París en 2016. 
Para medir la participación de los países, se empleó una búsqueda de texto de 
palabras clave en el contexto con los términos de búsqueda pertinentes para 
contar la cantidad total de referencias a los vínculos entre la salud y el 
cambio climático. Se usó un modelo de aprendizaje automático (predicciones de 
los bosques aleatorios) para identificar los indicadores más importantes de la 
participación de los países. Los indicadores incluían factores políticos y 
económicos, resultados sanitarios, variables del cambio climático y la 
pertenencia a los grupos de negociación política de las Naciones Unidas.
RESULTADOS: Tanto en las declaraciones del debate general de las Naciones Unidas 
como en las contribuciones establecidas a nivel nacional, los países de ingresos 
medios y bajos debatieron los efectos del cambio climático en la salud mucho más 
que los países de ingresos altos. Los indicadores más importantes de la 
participación fueron los resultados sanitarios (mortalidad infantil, mortalidad 
materna, esperanza de vida), los niveles de ingresos de los países (producto 
interno bruto per cápita) y el consumo de combustibles fósiles. La pertenencia a 
los grupos de negociación política (como el Grupo de los 77 y los Pequeños 
Estados Insulares en Desarrollo) fue el indicador de menor importancia.
CONCLUSIÓN: El análisis de este estudio indica que hay una mayor participación 
de los países que soportan las mayores cargas sanitarias relacionadas con el 
clima, pero que carecen de los recursos necesarios para resolver los efectos del 
cambio climático. Estos países asumen la responsabilidad de recordar a la 
comunidad mundial sobre las consecuencias del cambio climático para la salud de 
las personas.

Publisher: الغرض فحص مشاركة الدول في الآثار الصحية لتغير المناخ في بياناتها 
الرسمية إلى المنظمات الحكومية الدولية، والعوامل التي تدفع إلى المشاركة. الطريقة 
حصلنا على نصوص البيانات السنوية للدول في المناقشات العامة للأمم المتحدة (UN) من 
عام 2000 إلى عام 2019، ومساهماتها المحددة على المستوى الوطني في اتفاقية باريس في 
عام 2016. لقياس مشاركة الدول، استخدمنا البحث عن نص باستخدام الكلمات المفتاحية 
المتعلقة بالسياق مع مصطلحات البحث ذات الصلة لحساب العدد الإجمالي للإشارات إلى 
علاقة الصحة بالتغير في المناخ. استخدمنا نموذج التعلم الآلي (التنبؤات المتشعبة 
العشوائية) لتحديد أهم مؤشرات التنبؤ بالمشاركة على مستوى الدولة. شملت مؤشرات 
التنبؤ العوامل السياسية والاقتصادية، والنتائج الصحية، والمتغيرات المتعلقة بتغير 
المناخ، وعضوية مجموعات التفاوض السياسي في الأمم المتحدة. النتائج بالنسبة لكل من 
بيانات المناقشة العامة للأمم المتحدة، والمساهمات المحددة على المستوى الوطني، 
ناقشت الدول ذات الدخل المنخفض والدخل المتوسط الدخل الآثار الصحية لتغير المناخ 
بشكل أكثر بكثير مما قامت به الدول ذات الدخل المرتفع. كانت أهم مؤشرات التنبؤ 
بالمشاركة هي النتائج الصحية (وفيات المواليد، ووفيات الأمهات، ومتوسط العمر 
المتوقع)، ومستويات دخل الدول (الناتج المحلي الإجمالي للفرد)، واستهلاك الوقود 
الأحفوري. كانت عضوية مجموعات التفاوض السياسية (مثل مجموعة الـ 77 والدول الجزرية 
الصغيرة النامية) مؤشرًا أقل أهمية للتنبؤ. الاستنتاج أشار تحليلنا إلى مشاركة أكبر 
في الدول التي تتحمل أثقل الأعباء الصحية المتعلقة بالمناخ، ولكنها تفتقر إلى 
الموارد الضرورية لمعالجة آثار تغير المناخ. يقع على عاتق هذه الدول مسؤولية تذكير 
المجتمع العالمي بآثار تغير المناخ على صحة الناس.

Publisher: 目的: 考察各国在向政府间组织提交的正式声明中就气候变化对健康的影响这个问题报告的参与情况,以及推动参与的因素。.
方法: 我们获得了 2000 至 2019 年联合国 (UN) 一般性辩论中各国的年度声明文本,以及 2016 
年《巴黎协定》中各国自主贡献的文本。为了衡量各国的参与情况,我们使用相关搜索词进行上下文关键字文本搜索,以计算有关健康与气候变化之间关系的参考文献的总数。我们使用机器学习模式(随机森林预测)来确定国家层面有关参与情况的最重要预测因素。预测因素包括了政治和经济因素、健康结果、气候改变相关变量和联合国政治谈判小组的成员资格。.
结果: 
在联合国一般性辩论声明和国家自主贡献的调查结果中,中低收入国家针对气候变化对健康的影响的讨论远远超过高收入国家。参与情况的最重要预测因素是健康结果(婴儿死亡率、孕产妇死亡率、预期寿命)、国家收入水平(人均国内生产总值)和化石燃料消耗。政治谈判小组的成员资格(例如七十七国集团和小岛屿发展中国家)是次要预测因素。.
结论: 
我们的分析表明,承担气候相关健康负担最重的国家参与度更高,但是它们缺乏必要的资源来解决气候变化的影响。这些国家肩负着提醒国际社会气候变化对人们健康产生的影响的责任。.

Publisher: ЦЕЛЬ: Изучить вовлеченность стран в решение проблем, связанных с 
воздействием изменения климата на здоровье человека, на основании официальных 
заявлений в адрес межправительственных организаций, а также факторы, 
способствующие такому участию.
МЕТОДЫ: Авторы получили тексты ежегодных заявлений стран в ходе общеполитических 
дискуссий Организации Объединенных Наций (ООН) с 2000 по 2019 год, а также 
данные об определяемых на национальном уровне вкладах по Парижскому соглашению 
2016 года. Для измерения степени вовлеченности стран авторы использовали 
текстовый поиск по ключевым словам в контексте в сочетании с соответствующими 
критериями поиска, чтобы подсчитать общее количество ссылок на взаимосвязь между 
здоровьем человека и изменением климата. Авторы использовали модель машинного 
обучения (прогнозирование на основе случайного леса), чтобы определить наиболее 
важные предикторы вовлеченности стран. Предикторы включали в себя политические и 
экономические факторы, показатели здоровья, переменные, связанные с изменением 
климата, а также членство в политических переговорных группах ООН.
РЕЗУЛЬТАТЫ: Как в заявлениях стран в рамках общеполитических дискуссий ООН, так 
и в определяемых на национальном уровне вкладах страны с низким и средним 
уровнем дохода обсуждали последствия изменения климата для здоровья человека 
намного чаще, чем страны с высоким уровнем дохода. Наиболее важными предикторами 
вовлеченности были показатели здоровья (младенческая смертность, материнская 
смертность, ожидаемая продолжительность жизни), уровень доходов страны (валовой 
внутренний продукт на душу населения) и потребление ископаемых видов топлива. 
Членство в политических переговорных группах (таких как Группа 77 и Альянс малых 
островных развивающихся государств) являлось менее важным предиктором.
ВЫВОД: Проведенный анализ показал более высокую вовлеченность стран, несущих 
самое тяжелое бремя в области здравоохранения, связанное с изменением климата, 
но не располагающих необходимыми ресурсами для борьбы с последствиями изменения 
климата. Эти страны приняли на себя огромную ответственность за то, чтобы 
напомнить мировому сообществу о последствиях изменения климата для здоровья 
человека.

(c) 2021 The authors; licensee World Health Organization.

DOI: 10.2471/BLT.20.270033
PMCID: PMC7856366
PMID: 33551504 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


868. Front Aging Neurosci. 2021 Jan 20;12:578339. doi: 10.3389/fnagi.2020.578339.
 eCollection 2020.

Past, Present, and Future of Non-invasive Brain Stimulation Approaches to Treat 
Cognitive Impairment in Neurodegenerative Diseases: Time for a Comprehensive 
Critical Review.

Sanches C(1), Stengel C(1), Godard J(1), Mertz J(1), Teichmann M(1)(2), 
Migliaccio R(1)(2), Valero-Cabré A(1)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Cerebral Dynamics, Plasticity and Rehabilitation Group, FRONTLAB Team, CNRS 
UMR 7225, INSERM U 1127, Institut du Cerveau, Sorbonne Universités, Paris, 
France.
(2)National Reference Center for Rare or Early Onset Dementias, Department of 
Neurology, Institute of Memory and Alzheimer's Disease, Pitié-Salpêtrière 
Hospital, Assistance Publique -Hôpitaux de Paris, Paris, France.
(3)Laboratory for Cerebral Dynamics Plasticity & Rehabilitation, Boston 
University School of Medicine, Boston, MA, United States.
(4)Cognitive Neuroscience and Information Technology Research Program, Open 
University of Catalonia, Barcelona, Spain.

Low birth rates and increasing life expectancy experienced by developed 
societies have placed an unprecedented pressure on governments and the health 
system to deal effectively with the human, social and financial burden 
associated to aging-related diseases. At present, ∼24 million people worldwide 
suffer from cognitive neurodegenerative diseases, a prevalence that doubles 
every five years. Pharmacological therapies and cognitive 
training/rehabilitation have generated temporary hope and, occasionally, proof 
of mild relief. Nonetheless, these approaches are yet to demonstrate a 
meaningful therapeutic impact and changes in prognosis. We here review evidence 
gathered for nearly a decade on non-invasive brain stimulation (NIBS), a less 
known therapeutic strategy aiming to limit cognitive decline associated with 
neurodegenerative conditions. Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation and Transcranial 
Direct Current Stimulation, two of the most popular NIBS technologies, use 
electrical fields generated non-invasively in the brain to long-lastingly 
enhance the excitability/activity of key brain regions contributing to relevant 
cognitive processes. The current comprehensive critical review presents 
proof-of-concept evidence and meaningful cognitive outcomes of NIBS in eight of 
the most prevalent neurodegenerative pathologies affecting cognition: 
Alzheimer's Disease, Parkinson's Disease, Dementia with Lewy Bodies, Primary 
Progressive Aphasias (PPA), behavioral variant of Frontotemporal Dementia, 
Corticobasal Syndrome, Progressive Supranuclear Palsy, and Posterior Cortical 
Atrophy. We analyzed a total of 70 internationally published studies: 33 
focusing on Alzheimer's disease, 19 on PPA and 18 on the remaining 
neurodegenerative pathologies. The therapeutic benefit and clinical significance 
of NIBS remains inconclusive, in particular given the lack of a sufficient 
number of double-blind placebo-controlled randomized clinical trials using 
multiday stimulation regimes, the heterogeneity of the protocols, and adequate 
behavioral and neuroimaging response biomarkers, able to show lasting effects 
and an impact on prognosis. The field remains promising but, to make further 
progress, research efforts need to take in account the latest evidence of the 
anatomical and neurophysiological features underlying cognitive deficits in 
these patient populations. Moreover, as the development of in vivo biomarkers 
are ongoing, allowing for an early diagnosis of these neuro-cognitive 
conditions, one could consider a scenario in which NIBS treatment will be 
personalized and made part of a cognitive rehabilitation program, or useful as a 
potential adjunct to drug therapies since the earliest stages of suh diseases. 
Research should also integrate novel knowledge on the mechanisms and constraints 
guiding the impact of electrical and magnetic fields on cerebral tissues and 
brain activity, and incorporate the principles of information-based 
neurostimulation.

Copyright © 2021 Sanches, Stengel, Godard, Mertz, Teichmann, Migliaccio and 
Valero-Cabré.

DOI: 10.3389/fnagi.2020.578339
PMCID: PMC7854576
PMID: 33551785

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


869. Ann Med Surg (Lond). 2021 Jan 26;62:391-394. doi:
10.1016/j.amsu.2021.01.069.  eCollection 2021 Feb.

Giant conjunctival melanoma in a paranoid schizophrenic man: A case report.

Supit T(1), Pujisriyani(2), Subiyakto(3), Nugroho T(4), Fitrikasari A(5), 
Najatullah(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery, Faculty of Medicine Diponegoro University, Dr. 
Kariadi General Hospital, Jl. Dr. Sutomo No. 16, Randusari, Semarang Selatan, 
Semarang, Jawa Tengah, 50244, Indonesia.
(2)Department of Plastic Surgery, Faculty of Medicine Diponegoro University, Dr. 
Kariadi General Hospital, Jl. Dr. Sutomo No. 16, Randusari, Semarang Selatan, 
Semarang, Jawa Tengah, 50244, Indonesia.
(3)Department of Oncologic Surgery, Faculty of Medicine Diponegoro University, 
Dr. Kariadi General Hospital, Jl. Dr. Sutomo No. 16, Randusari, Semarang 
Selatan, Semarang, Jawa Tengah, 50244, Indonesia.
(4)Department of Ophthalmology, Faculty of Medicine Diponegoro University, Dr. 
Kariadi General Hospital, Jl. Dr. Sutomo No. 16, Randusari, Semarang Selatan, 
Semarang, Jawa Tengah, 50244, Indonesia.
(5)Department of Psychiatry, Faculty of Medicine Diponegoro University, Dr. 
Kariadi General Hospital, Jl. Dr. Sutomo No. 16, Randusari, Semarang Selatan, 
Semarang, Jawa Tengah, 50244, Indonesia.

INTRODUCTION: and importance: Conjunctival melanoma (CM) is a rare and 
potentially lethal ocular tumor. As with any oncologic disease, early diagnosis 
and appropriate treatment of CM is paramount to limit morbidity and increase 
life expectancy. However, patients with severe mental disability with social 
isolation are usually presented in late-stage disease.
CASE PRESENTATION: This report presents a case of a 55-year-old man with 
paranoid schizophrenic man with an extraordinarily large CM due to neglect. The 
patient suffered from complete left eye blindness with no clinical and 
radiological evidence of metastasis.
CLINICAL DICUSSION: Clinicians must bear in mind the limited patient compliance 
and family support of mentally-ill patients that restricts treatment modalities 
that would have otherwise been applicable for cooperative patients. The 
importance multidisciplinary approach, choosing the simpler but effective 
surgical technique should be prioritized.
INTERVENTION AND OUTCOME: Left exenteration and tumor wide excision was 
performed. The left orbital defect was reconstructed using forehead flap and 
split-thickness skin graft (STSG). The uncooperative nature of the patient posed 
early post-operative challenges that necessitates subsequent operation to drain 
seroma. The patient was discharged 16-days after operation with acceptable 
cosmetic and clinical results. However, the patient failed to return to the 
clinic for longer post-operative evaluation.
CONCLUSION: A multidisciplinary approach is mandatory to treat complex cases 
such as this report. Surgeons are advised to adopt simpler surgical approach 
that will require minimal self-care and should encourage family members to 
continuously support the patient.

© 2021 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd on behalf of IJS Publishing Group 
Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amsu.2021.01.069
PMCID: PMC7851416
PMID: 33552501

Conflict of interest statement: None declared.


870. Cent European J Urol. 2020;73(4):416-422. doi: 10.5173/ceju.0310. Epub 2020
Dec  9.

Assessment of the effectiveness of radiofrequency ablation as a technique for 
destroying small renal tumors in patients older than 70.

Lesnyak O(1), Stroy O(2), Banyra O(3)(4), Nikitin O(5), Grytsyna Y(6), Hayda 
I(7)(8), Chaplia M(2), Borzhievskyy A(2).

Author information:
(1)Municipal Non-profit Enterprise 'Lviv Clinical Emergency Care Hospital', 
Department of Urology, Lviv, Ukraine.
(2)Danylo Halytsky Lviv National Medical University, Department of Urology, 
Lviv, Ukraine.
(3)St. Paraskeva Medical Centre, Lviv, Ukraine.
(4)2 Lviv Municipal Polyclinic, Lviv, Ukraine.
(5)Bogomolets National Medical University, Department of Urology, Kyiv, Ukraine.
(6)Lviv Railway Clinical Hospital, Department of Urology, Lviv, Ukraine.
(7)Danylo Halytsky Lviv National Medical University, Faculty of Post Graduate 
Education, Department of Radiology, Lviv, Ukraine.
(8)St. Paraskeva Medical Centre, Ultrasound Department, Lviv, Ukraine.

INTRODUCTION: During the past few decades, the percentage of older people in the 
population has been steadily growing due to the tendency of extended life 
expectancy. The efficacy of radiofrequency ablation (RFA) and tumor 
enucleoresection (TE) in the treatment of selected older patients with renal 
cell carcinoma (RCC) T1aN0M0 sized ≤4.0 cm has been a popular topic in many 
recent studies.The aim of this study was to access the effectiveness of 
radiofrequency ablation in patients older than 70 with T1aN0M0 RCC.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A total of 86 patients aged 70-84 with histologically 
confirmed solitary kidney tumors T1aN0M0 who underwent RFA (n = 39) and TE (n = 
47) were been included in this study. The patients were assigned to groups based 
on the impact of their comorbidities. Rockwood's Clinical Frailty Scale Score 
(FS) and Charlson Comorbidity Index score (CCI) were used to separate fit from 
unfit older patients. The RFA group was characterized by an FS and CCI of 4-5 
