de presentar una menor calidad de vida.CONCLUSIÓN: Nuestros hallazgos sugieren 
que la disfunción eréctil y los síntomas prostáticos son eventos frecuentes en 
la población estudiada, al igual que una baja percepción de la calidad de vida. 
La atención oportuna y eficaz de estas patologías puede potencialmente mejorar 
la dinámica individual y social de los sujetos afectados.

PMID: 33650537 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


180. Milbank Q. 2021 Sep;99(3):794-827. doi: 10.1111/1468-0009.12501. Epub 2021
Mar  2.

Linking Data on Constituent Health with Elected Officials' Opinions: 
Associations Between Urban Health Disparities and Mayoral Officials' Beliefs 
About Health Disparities in Their Cities.

Purtle J(1), Joshi R(1), Lê-Scherban F(1), Henson RM(1), Diez Roux AV(1).

Author information:
(1)Dornsife School of Public Health and Urban Health Collaborative, Drexel 
University.

Policy Points Mayoral officials' opinions about the existence and fairness of 
health disparities in their city are positively associated with the magnitude of 
income-based life expectancy disparity in their city. Associations between 
mayoral officials' opinions about health disparities in their city and the 
magnitude of life expectancy disparity in their city are not moderated by the 
social or fiscal ideology of mayoral officials or the ideology of their 
constituents. Highly visible and publicized information about mortality 
disparities, such as that related to COVID-19 disparities, has potential to 
elevate elected officials' perceptions of the severity of health disparities and 
influence their opinions about the issue.
CONTEXT: A substantive body of research has explored what factors influence 
elected officials' opinions about health issues. However, no studies have 
assessed the potential influence of the health of an elected official's 
constituents. We assessed whether the magnitude of income-based life expectancy 
disparity within a city was associated with the opinions of that city's mayoral 
official (i.e., mayor or deputy mayor) about health disparities in their city.
METHODS: The independent variable was the magnitude of income-based life 
expectancy disparity in US cities. The magnitude was determined by linking 
2010-2015 estimates of life expectancy and median household income for 8,434 
census tracts in 224 cities. The dependent variables were mayoral officials' 
opinions from a 2016 survey about the existence and fairness of health 
disparities in their city (n = 224, response rate 30.3%). Multivariable logistic 
regression was used to adjust for characteristics of mayoral officials (e.g., 
ideology) and city characteristics.
FINDINGS: In cities in the highest income-based life expectancy disparity 
quartile, 50.0% of mayoral officials "strongly agreed" that health disparities 
existed and 52.7% believed health disparities were "very unfair." In comparison, 
among mayoral officials in cities in the lowest disparity quartile 33.9% 
"strongly agreed" that health disparities existed and 22.2% believed the 
disparities were "very unfair." A 1-year-larger income-based life expectancy 
disparity in a city was associated with 25% higher odds that the city's mayoral 
official would "strongly agree" that health disparities existed (odds ratio [OR] 
= 1.25; P = .04) and twice the odds that the city's mayoral official would 
believe that such disparities were "very unfair" (OR = 2.24; P <.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Mayoral officials' opinions about health disparities in their 
jurisdictions are generally aligned with, and potentially influenced by, 
information about the magnitude of income-based life expectancy disparities 
among their constituents.

© 2021 Milbank Memorial Fund.

DOI: 10.1111/1468-0009.12501
PMCID: PMC8452363
PMID: 33650741 [Indexed for MEDLINE]181. Radiat Environ Biophys. 2021 May;60(2):243-256. doi:
10.1007/s00411-021-00895-w.  Epub 2021 Mar 2.

Modelling and measurements of distributions in an adult human phantom undergoing 
proton scanning beam radiotherapy: lung- and prostate-located tumours.

Puchalska M(1).

Author information:
(1)Radiation Physics, Technische Universität Wien, Stadionalle 2, 1020, Vienna, 
Austria. monika.puchalska@tuwien.ac.at.

Proton radiotherapy has been shown to offer a significant dosimetric advantage 
in cancer patients, in comparison to conventional radiotherapy, with a decrease 
in dose to healthy tissue and organs at risk, because the bulk of the beam 
energy is deposited in the Bragg peak to be located within a tumour. However, it 
should be kept in mind that radiotherapy of cancer is still accompanied by 
adverse side effects, and a better understanding and improvement of radiotherapy 
can extend the life expectancy of patients following the treatment of malignant 
tumours. In this study, the dose distributions measured with thermoluminescent 
detectors (TLDs) inside a tissue-equivalent adult human phantom exposed for lung 
and prostate cancer using the modern proton beam scanning radiotherapy technique 
were compared. Since the TLD detection efficiency depends on the ionization 
density of the radiation to be detected, and since this efficiency is detector 
specific, four different types of TLDs were used to compare their response in 
the mixed radiation fields. Additionally, the dose distributions from two 
different cancer treatment modalities were compared using the selected 
detectors. The measured dose values were benchmarked against Monte Carlo 
simulations and available literature data. The results indicate an increase in 
the lateral dose with an increase of the primary proton energy. However, the 
radiation quality factor of the mixed radiation increases by 20% in the vicinity 
to the target for the lower initial proton energy, due to the production of 
secondary charged particles of low-energy and short range. For the cases 
presented here the MTS-N TLD detector seems to be the most optimal tool for dose 
measurements within the target volume, while the MCP-N TLD detector, due to an 
interplay of its enhanced thermal neutron response and decreased detection 
efficiency to highly ionising radiation, is a better choice for the out-of-field 
measurements. The pairs of MTS-6 and MTS-7 TLDs used also in this study allowed 
for a direct measurement of the neutron dose equivalent. Before it can be 
concluded that they offer an alternative to the time-consuming nuclear track 
detectors, however, more research is needed to unambiguously confirm whether 
this observation was just accidental or whether it only applies to certain 
cases. Since there is no universal detector, which would allow the determination 
of the dosimetric quantities relevant for risk estimation, this work expands the 
knowledge necessary to improve the quality of dosimetry data and might help 
scientists and clinicians in choosing the right tools to measure radiation doses 
in mixed radiation fields.

DOI: 10.1007/s00411-021-00895-w
PMCID: PMC8116245
PMID: 33651168 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.


182. Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2021 Jul;19(4):545-555. doi: 
10.1007/s40258-021-00640-w. Epub 2021 Mar 2.

Cost-Effectiveness and Value of Information of Cabozantinib Treatment for 
Patients with Advanced Renal Cell Carcinoma After Failure of Prior Therapy in 
South Korea.

Kim S(1), Han S(2), Kim H(1), Suh HS(3).

Author information:
(1)College of Pharmacy, Pusan National University, 2, Busandaehak-ro 63 
beon-gil, Geumjeong-gu, Busan, 46241, South Korea.
(2)College of Pharmacy, Kyung Hee University, Seoul, South Korea.
(3)College of Pharmacy, Kyung Hee University, Seoul, South Korea. 
haesun.suh@khu.ac.kr.

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the cost-effectiveness and value of information of 
cabozantinib compared to nivolumab in advanced renal cell carcinoma (RCC) 
patients, who previously failed treatment from a societal perspective in South 
Korea.
METHODS: A partitioned survival model was used to evaluate the incremental 
cost-utility ratio (ICUR) of cabozantinib versus nivolumab. Overall survival 
(OS) and progression-free survival (PFS) curves were obtained from a network 
meta-analysis that included METEOR and CheckMate 025 trial results. Utility 
values for health states and adverse events were estimated based on the EQ-5D-5L 
data of METEOR trial with a Korean-specific tariff. Costs were estimated by a 
micro-costing approach using healthcare claims data and expert consultation. The 
impact of uncertainties in the model were explored by scenario analyses, and 
deterministic and probabilistic sensitivity analyses. The expected value of 
perfect information (EVPI) was estimated to assess the value of future research 
to decrease decision uncertainty.
RESULTS: Compared to nivolumab, cabozantinib was associated with improved OS, 
PFS, and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) at greater cost. The ICUR was 
$34,445 per QALY. In sensitivity analysis, drug costs had the greatest influence 
on the ICUR. Cabozantinib had a 68.0% probability of being cost-effective at a 
threshold of 2 times gross domestic product (GDP) per capita. The population 
EVPI was $82.6 million at 2 GDP threshold.
CONCLUSIONS: Cabozantinib was found to be cost-effective for advanced RCC 
patients after failure of prior therapy at a 2 GDP threshold. Future research 
that costs less than the estimated population EVPI would be worth considering 
for a comparison of cabozantinib and nivolumab.

© 2021. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland AG 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s40258-021-00640-w
PMID: 33651367 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


183. Mortality in Type 1 Diabetes.

Secrest AM(1), Washington RE(2), Orchard TJ(3).

In: Cowie CC(4), Casagrande SS(5), Menke A(5), Cissell MA(6), Eberhardt MS(7), 
Meigs JB(8), Gregg EW(9), Knowler WC(10), Barrett-Connor E(11), Becker DJ(12), 
Brancati FL(13), Boyko EJ(14), Herman WH(15), Howard BV(16), Narayan KMV(17), 
Rewers M(18), Fradkin JE(19), editors. Diabetes in America. 3rd edition. 
Bethesda (MD): National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases 
(US); 2018 Aug. CHAPTER 35.

Author information:
(1)Dr. Aaron M. Secrest is a Resident Physician at the University of Utah, Salt 
Lake City, UT
(2)Dr. Raynard E. Washington is a Health Research Scientist at the Agency for 
Healthcare Research and Quality, United States Department of Health and Human 
Services, Rockville, MD
(3)Dr. Trevor J. Orchard is a Professor at the University of Pittsburgh, 
Pittsburgh, PA
(4)Senior Advisor and Director for Diabetes Epidemiology, National Institute of 
Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, National Institutes of Health, 
Bethesda, MD
(5)Senior Research Analyst, Social & Scientific Systems, Inc., Silver Spring, MD
(6)Science Writer/Editor, Chicago, IL
(7)Epidemiologist, Division of Health and Nutrition Examination Surveys, 
National Center for Health Statistics, Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention, Hyattsville, MD
(8)Professor of Medicine, Harvard Medical School, and Physician, Division of 
General Internal Medicine, Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General 
Hospital, Boston, MA
(9)Chief, Epidemiology and Statistics Branch, Division of Diabetes Translation, 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, GA
(10)Chief, Diabetes Epidemiology and Clinical Research Section, National 
Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, National Institutes of 
Health, Phoenix, AZ
(11)Distinguished Professor, Division of Epidemiology, Department of Family 
Medicine and Public Health, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA
(12)Professor of Pediatrics, Division of Endocrinology and Diabetes, Children’s 
Hospital of Pittsburgh of UPMC, Pittsburgh, PA
(13)Distinguished Service Professor of Medicine and Epidemiology, Johns Hopkins 
University, Baltimore, MD
(14)Professor, University of Washington, and Staff Physician, Veterans Affairs 
Puget Sound, Seattle, WA
(15)Professor, Departments of Internal Medicine and Epidemiology, University of 
Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI
(16)Professor of Medicine, Department of Medicine, Division of Endocrinology and 
Metabolism, Georgetown University Hospital, and Senior Scientist, MedStar Health 
Research Institute, Hyattsville, MD
(17)Director, Emory Global Diabetes Research Center, Ruth and O.C. Hubert 
Professor of Global Health and Epidemiology, Rollins School of Public Health, 
and Professor of Medicine, School of Medicine, Emory University, Atlanta, GA
(18)Professor of Pediatrics and Medicine, Barbara Davis Center for Childhood 
Diabetes, University of Colorado School of Medicine, Aurora, CO
(19)Director, Division of Diabetes, Endocrinology, and Metabolic Diseases, 
National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, National 
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD

Despite major advances in management and care, type 1 diabetes remains 
associated with considerable premature mortality. Although significant 
improvements in life expectancy have been observed in those diagnosed since 
1965, mortality rates among patients with type 1 diabetes remain significantly 
higher than the general population, a finding confirmed by several studies in 
the United States and internationally, with standardized mortality ratios 
revealing that patients with type 1 diabetes have mortality rates that are 3–18 
times higher than would be expected in their respective countries. There is 
marked geographic variation in mortality, and further notable differences 
between males and females, compared to the general population. Deaths due to 
diabetes-related acute and chronic complications appear to account for nearly 
all of the excess premature mortality in patients with type 1 diabetes compared 
to the general population. Diabetes-related chronic complications, particularly 
cardiovascular and renal disease, are now the predominant causes of death in 
type 1 diabetes, in contrast to the high rates of death due to diabetes-related 
acute complications (i.e., glycemic-related events) observed during earlier 
years (i.e., the pre-insulin era). End-stage renal disease (ESRD), historically, 
is the leading cause of death in the mid-years of diabetes duration (up to 35 
years), accounting for more than half of deaths. After 35 years duration, 
however, cardiovascular disease (CVD) is the leading cause of death, accounting 
for two-thirds of deaths. With the decline (or delay) in developing ESRD due to 
improvements in diabetes management, this pattern may be changing. Several risk 
factors for type 1 diabetes mortality have been investigated. Females with type 
1 diabetes continue to have a greater increase in mortality compared to females 
in the general population than is found for males. This pattern is consistent 
for all causes of death, particularly CVD, where the standardized mortality 
ratio for females (24.7) is nearly three times that for males (8.6), primarily 
resulting from the lower rates of mortality in the female general population. In 
addition, African Americans remain at increased risk of premature mortality 
compared to Caucasians, consistently having mortality rates 2.5 higher than 
their Caucasian counterparts over the past 30 years. Onset of type 1 diabetes 
after puberty also appears to be associated with 1.5–2.0-fold higher mortality 
than prepubertal onset. Several other factors are associated with type 1 
diabetes mortality, including lower socioeconomic status, hypertension, smoking, 
and renal failure. Some risk factors, such as glycemic control and insulin 
resistance, have not consistently shown direct associations with type 1 diabetes 
mortality but are associated with diabetes-related chronic complications and are 
likely contributing factors. Indeed, the Diabetes Control and Complications 
Trial/Epidemiology of Diabetes Interventions and Complications study suggests 
that even 6 years of more intensive therapy may lead to a lower mortality over 
20 years of further follow-up. Finally, type 1 diabetes has a greater impact on 
mortality rates in U.S. populations than seen in many European countries, with 
U.S. standardized mortality ratios of 6.9–7.5 compared to European standardized 
mortality ratios of 3.3–4.2. These geographic differences indicate an urgent 
need to improve disease management and access to care in the United States.

PMID: 33651546

Conflict of interest statement: DUALITY OF INTEREST Drs. Secrest, Washington, 
and Orchard reported no conflicts of interest.


184. Diabetes in Youth.

Dabelea D(1), Hamman RF(2), Knowler WC(3).

In: Cowie CC(4), Casagrande SS(5), Menke A(5), Cissell MA(6), Eberhardt MS(7), 
Meigs JB(8), Gregg EW(9), Knowler WC(10), Barrett-Connor E(11), Becker DJ(12), 
Brancati FL(13), Boyko EJ(14), Herman WH(15), Howard BV(16), Narayan KMV(17), 
Rewers M(18), Fradkin JE(19), editors. Diabetes in America. 3rd edition. 
Bethesda (MD): National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases 
(US); 2018 Aug. CHAPTER 15.

Author information:
(1)Dr. Dana Dabelea is a Professor of Epidemiology and Pediatrics at the 
Colorado School of Public Health, University of Colorado Denver, Anschutz 
Medical Campus, Aurora, CO
(2)Dr. Richard F. Hamman is a Distinguished Professor of Epidemiology and 
Founding Dean Emeritus at the Colorado School of Public Health, University of 
Colorado Denver, Anschutz Medical Campus, Aurora, CO
(3)Dr. William C. Knowler is the Chief of the Diabetes Epidemiology and Clinical 
Research Section at the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney 
Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Phoenix, AZ
(4)Senior Advisor and Director for Diabetes Epidemiology, National Institute of 
Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, National Institutes of Health, 
Bethesda, MD
(5)Senior Research Analyst, Social & Scientific Systems, Inc., Silver Spring, MD
(6)Science Writer/Editor, Chicago, IL
(7)Epidemiologist, Division of Health and Nutrition Examination Surveys, 
National Center for Health Statistics, Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention, Hyattsville, MD
(8)Professor of Medicine, Harvard Medical School, and Physician, Division of 
General Internal Medicine, Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General 
Hospital, Boston, MA
(9)Chief, Epidemiology and Statistics Branch, Division of Diabetes Translation, 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, GA
(10)Chief, Diabetes Epidemiology and Clinical Research Section, National 
Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, National Institutes of 
Health, Phoenix, AZ
(11)Distinguished Professor, Division of Epidemiology, Department of Family 
Medicine and Public Health, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA
(12)Professor of Pediatrics, Division of Endocrinology and Diabetes, Children’s 
Hospital of Pittsburgh of UPMC, Pittsburgh, PA
(13)Distinguished Service Professor of Medicine and Epidemiology, Johns Hopkins 
University, Baltimore, MD
(14)Professor, University of Washington, and Staff Physician, Veterans Affairs 
Puget Sound, Seattle, WA
(15)Professor, Departments of Internal Medicine and Epidemiology, University of 
Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI
(16)Professor of Medicine, Department of Medicine, Division of Endocrinology and 
Metabolism, Georgetown University Hospital, and Senior Scientist, MedStar Health 
Research Institute, Hyattsville, MD
(17)Director, Emory Global Diabetes Research Center, Ruth and O.C. Hubert 
Professor of Global Health and Epidemiology, Rollins School of Public Health, 
and Professor of Medicine, School of Medicine, Emory University, Atlanta, GA
(18)Professor of Pediatrics and Medicine, Barbara Davis Center for Childhood 
Diabetes, University of Colorado School of Medicine, Aurora, CO
(19)Director, Division of Diabetes, Endocrinology, and Metabolic Diseases, 
National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, National 
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD

Diabetes is the third most prevalent severe chronic disease of childhood and a 
leading cause of retinopathy, nephropathy, neuropathy, and coronary and 
peripheral vascular disease later in life. Diabetes diagnosed in youth, defined 
as age <18 years, and young adults is not always easy to classify into one of 
the main etiologic “types”, i.e., type 1 or type 2. This is especially true 
since obesity, classically associated with type 2 diabetes, is now more common 
among youth with type 1 diabetes. Data suggest that youth with diabetes 
autoantibodies and obesity are metabolically similar to thin type 1 diabetic 
youth and do not have “type 1.5” or “double diabetes.” The prevalence of 
diabetes in U.S. youth in 2009 was 2.2 per 1,000 overall; the prevalence of type 
1 diabetes was 1.93 per 1,000 and that of type 2 diabetes was 0.24 per 1,000. 
Non-Hispanic white youth had the highest prevalence of type 1 diabetes, followed 
by non-Hispanic black youth. Type 2 diabetes was found to occur in all 
racial/ethnic groups, but the proportion of type 1 to type 2 diabetes varied 
greatly by race/ethnicity, with type 2 diabetes representing only 5.5% of cases 
of diabetes in non-Hispanic white youth, but 80% of diabetes in American Indian 
youth. Between 2001 and 2009, a 31% increase in prevalence of type 2 diabetes 
and a 21% increase in prevalence of type 1 diabetes were observed. Risk factors 
for type 1 diabetes include genetics, especially the HLA region, and 
environmental factors, such as viruses and early life diet, though few 
nongenetic factors are well established. Type 2 diabetes risk factors include 
genetics, which explains only a small percentage of risk, intrauterine exposure 
to maternal obesity and diabetes, and high gestational weight gain, as well as 
postnatal obesity with rapid catch-up growth from low birth weight. 
Breastfeeding appears to reduce the risk of type 2 diabetes in youth. The major 
complications of youth-onset diabetes were once thought to develop only after 
achieving adult age. Newer data suggest that with sensitive techniques, diabetic 
retinopathy, neuropathy, and elevated urine albumin concentrations can be 
detected after 3–5 years of diabetes duration. In addition, increased arterial 
stiffness, reduced heart rate variability (as a sign of cardiac autonomic 
neuropathy), and carotid artery wall thickening can also be detected and are 
associated with higher levels of glycemia. These subclinical and clinical 
outcomes appear to be more common among youth with type 2 than type 1 diabetes 
at the same duration. Cardiovascular disease risk factors (e.g., lipids, blood 
pressure, inflammatory and oxidative stress markers) are also elevated after 
short durations, especially in youth with type 2 diabetes or those with poor 
glycemic control. Mortality among youth with diabetes is elevated compared to 
nondiabetic controls by 30%–200%. Those with type 1 diabetes diagnosed before 
age 20 years have a life expectancy that is 15–27 years shorter than that of 
nondiabetic persons, although substantial improvements in life expectancy have 
been noted among those diagnosed after 1965. No life expectancy studies are 
available among youth with type 2 diabetes. The earlier onset of both type 1 and 
type 2 diabetes results in a longer duration of diabetes at any adult age than 
in prior years. Thus, women with youth-onset diabetes are now more likely to 
have diabetes during their pregnancies, which results in increased offspring 
risk for both obesity and diabetes. In addition, complications development is 
duration dependent, so persons with youth-onset diabetes now face chronic kidney 
disease and dialysis, myocardial infarction, and stroke at younger ages than 
persons who develop diabetes as adults, resulting in greater life-years lost and 
higher health care costs. Since type 2 diabetes and many of the risk factors for 
complications in both types of diabetes cluster in youth who are economically 
disadvantaged, significant efforts to improve care will be required.

PMID: 33651555

Conflict of interest statement: DUALITY OF INTEREST Drs. Dabelea, Hamman, and 
Knowler reported no conflicts of interest.


185. Prevalence and Incidence of Type 1 Diabetes Among Children and Adults in the
 United States and Comparison With Non-U.S. Countries.

Imperatore G(1), Mayer-Davis EJ(2), Orchard TJ(3), Zhong VW(4).

In: Cowie CC(5), Casagrande SS(6), Menke A(6), Cissell MA(7), Eberhardt MS(8), 
Meigs JB(9), Gregg EW(10), Knowler WC(11), Barrett-Connor E(12), Becker DJ(13), 
Brancati FL(14), Boyko EJ(15), Herman WH(16), Howard BV(17), Narayan KMV(18), 
Rewers M(19), Fradkin JE(20), editors. Diabetes in America. 3rd edition. 
Bethesda (MD): National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases 
(US); 2018 Aug. CHAPTER 2.

Author information:
(1)Dr. Giuseppina Imperatore is Team Lead, Epidemiology and Statistics Branch, 
Division of Diabetes Translation, National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention 
and Health Promotion, at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 
Atlanta, GA
(2)Dr. Elizabeth J. Mayer-Davis is Professor and Chair, Department of Nutrition, 
Gillings School of Global Public Health and School of Medicine, at the 
University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC
(3)Dr. Trevor J. Orchard is Professor of Epidemiology, Medicine & Pediatrics, 
Department of Epidemiology, Graduate School of Public Health, at the University 
of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA
(4)Dr. Victor W. Zhong is with the Department of Preventive Medicine, 
Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, IL
(5)Senior Advisor and Director for Diabetes Epidemiology, National Institute of 
Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, National Institutes of Health, 
Bethesda, MD
(6)Senior Research Analyst, Social & Scientific Systems, Inc., Silver Spring, MD
(7)Science Writer/Editor, Chicago, IL
(8)Epidemiologist, Division of Health and Nutrition Examination Surveys, 
National Center for Health Statistics, Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention, Hyattsville, MD
(9)Professor of Medicine, Harvard Medical School, and Physician, Division of 
General Internal Medicine, Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General 
Hospital, Boston, MA
(10)Chief, Epidemiology and Statistics Branch, Division of Diabetes Translation, 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, GA
(11)Chief, Diabetes Epidemiology and Clinical Research Section, National 
Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, National Institutes of 
Health, Phoenix, AZ
(12)Distinguished Professor, Division of Epidemiology, Department of Family 
Medicine and Public Health, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA
(13)Professor of Pediatrics, Division of Endocrinology and Diabetes, Children’s 
Hospital of Pittsburgh of UPMC, Pittsburgh, PA
(14)Distinguished Service Professor of Medicine and Epidemiology, Johns Hopkins 
University, Baltimore, MD
(15)Professor, University of Washington, and Staff Physician, Veterans Affairs 
Puget Sound, Seattle, WA
(16)Professor, Departments of Internal Medicine and Epidemiology, University of 
Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI
(17)Professor of Medicine, Department of Medicine, Division of Endocrinology and 
Metabolism, Georgetown University Hospital, and Senior Scientist, MedStar Health 
Research Institute, Hyattsville, MD
(18)Director, Emory Global Diabetes Research Center, Ruth and O.C. Hubert 
Professor of Global Health and Epidemiology, Rollins School of Public Health, 
and Professor of Medicine, School of Medicine, Emory University, Atlanta, GA
(19)Professor of Pediatrics and Medicine, Barbara Davis Center for Childhood 
Diabetes, University of Colorado School of Medicine, Aurora, CO
(20)Director, Division of Diabetes, Endocrinology, and Metabolic Diseases, 
National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, National 
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD

Type 1 diabetes is one of the most common chronic diseases of childhood in the 
United States, accounting for nearly 98% of all cases of diabetes in children 
age <10 years and over 87% of all cases in youth age 10–19 years. However, the 
disease can occur at any age. Type 1 diabetes primarily results from an immune 
attack to the insulin-producing beta cells of the pancreas, which results in 
insulin deficiency and high blood glucose concentrations. If left untreated, 
this disease is fatal. The optimal treatment of type 1 diabetes includes basal 
and multiple doses of insulin using injections or an insulin pump, frequent 
checking of blood glucose concentrations, and adjusting insulin doses for 
carbohydrate intake and physical activity. Individuals with type 1 diabetes are 
at risk of acute complications (e.g., severe hypoglycemia, diabetic 
ketoacidosis) and chronic complications, including both macrovascular and 
microvascular diseases, and may experience a shorter life expectancy than the 
U.S. general population. Estimates of the prevalence and incidence of type 1 
diabetes in U.S. youth age <20 years in all major U.S. race/ethnicity groups 
come from the SEARCH for Diabetes in Youth study (SEARCH). SEARCH reported that 
in the United States, in 2009, an estimated 167,000 youth lived with type 1 
diabetes. The overall prevalence (cases/1,000) was 1.93. It was similar in boys 
and girls and increased with age from 0.82 in children age 0–9 years to 2.97 in 
youth age 10–19 years. In 2008–2009, among youth age <20 years, the incidence of 
type 1 diabetes was 22.0 per 100,000 per year. By applying age-, sex-, and 
race/ethnicity-specific incidence rates to the U.S. youth population, SEARCH 
estimated that each year approximately 18,000 new cases of type 1 diabetes occur 
in youth age <20 years. Data on the prevalence and incidence of type 1 diabetes 
in U.S. adults are very limited. Using data collected by the National Health and 
Nutrition Examination Surveys in 1999–2010, the estimated overall prevalence of 
type 1 diabetes, defined as being on insulin since diagnosis, current insulin 
use, and age of onset <30 or <40 years, was 2.6 per 1,000 and 3.4 per 1,000, 
respectively, corresponding to 740,000 to 970,000 people of the U.S. civilian, 
noninstitutionalized population. During 1990–2005, among U.S. military personnel 
age 18–44 years, the overall age-adjusted incidence of insulin-requiring 
diabetes was 17.5 per 100,000 person-years in men and 13.6 per 100,000 
person-years in women. Diabetes registries in the United States have reported 
that the incidence of type 1 diabetes in children is increasing. Data from the 
SEARCH study showed that among non-Hispanic white youth, the incidence (per 
100,000 per year) increased from 24.4 in 2002 to 27.4 in 2009, a relative 
increase of 2.7% per year. Type 1 diabetes surveillance is crucial for 
understanding the disease burden at the population level, for identifying 
subgroups most at risk, for planning health care delivery, and for advancing the 
understanding of the pathogenesis of the disease both in childhood and 
adulthood. However, surveillance efforts of type 1 diabetes encounter a number 
of challenges, including distinguishing types of diabetes both in youth and in 
adults and the lack of common case definition and ascertainment methodology. 
Surveillance strategies based on large administrative databases and electronic 
health records might be useful to fill these gaps. However, the feasibility, 
accuracy, and costs of these approaches need to be evaluated.

PMID: 33651561

Conflict of interest statement: DUALITY OF INTEREST Drs. Imperatore, 
Mayer-Davis, Orchard, and Zhong reported no conflicts of interest, with the 
following potential exception. Dr. Zhong received support from Sanofi US as a 
UNC Sanofi Global Nutrition Scholar at the University of North Carolina at 
Chapel Hill.


186. Mortality Trends in Type 2 Diabetes.

Rosenquist KJ(1), Fox CS(2).

In: Cowie CC(3), Casagrande SS(4), Menke A(4), Cissell MA(5), Eberhardt MS(6), 
Meigs JB(7), Gregg EW(8), Knowler WC(9), Barrett-Connor E(10), Becker DJ(11), 
Brancati FL(12), Boyko EJ(13), Herman WH(14), Howard BV(15), Narayan KMV(16), 
Rewers M(17), Fradkin JE(18), editors. Diabetes in America. 3rd edition. 
Bethesda (MD): National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases 
(US); 2018 Aug. CHAPTER 36.

Author information:
(1)Dr. Klara J. Rosenquist is the Associate Medical Director of Quality, Safety 
and Population Health Management at North Shore Physicians Group in Peabody, MA
(2)Dr. Caroline S. Fox is the Director of Metabolic Research at the Framingham 
Heart Study and the Associate Director at the Center for Population Studies in 
Framingham, MA. She is also a senior investigator at the Laboratory for 
Metabolic and Population Health of National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute and 
an Associate Clinical Professor of Medicine at the Brigham and Women’s Hospital 
and Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA
(3)Senior Advisor and Director for Diabetes Epidemiology, National Institute of 
Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, National Institutes of Health, 
Bethesda, MD
(4)Senior Research Analyst, Social & Scientific Systems, Inc., Silver Spring, MD
(5)Science Writer/Editor, Chicago, IL
(6)Epidemiologist, Division of Health and Nutrition Examination Surveys, 
National Center for Health Statistics, Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention, Hyattsville, MD
(7)Professor of Medicine, Harvard Medical School, and Physician, Division of 
General Internal Medicine, Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General 
Hospital, Boston, MA
(8)Chief, Epidemiology and Statistics Branch, Division of Diabetes Translation, 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, GA
(9)Chief, Diabetes Epidemiology and Clinical Research Section, National 
Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, National Institutes of 
Health, Phoenix, AZ
(10)Distinguished Professor, Division of Epidemiology, Department of Family 
Medicine and Public Health, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA
(11)Professor of Pediatrics, Division of Endocrinology and Diabetes, Children’s 
Hospital of Pittsburgh of UPMC, Pittsburgh, PA
(12)Distinguished Service Professor of Medicine and Epidemiology, Johns Hopkins 
University, Baltimore, MD
(13)Professor, University of Washington, and Staff Physician, Veterans Affairs 
Puget Sound, Seattle, WA
(14)Professor, Departments of Internal Medicine and Epidemiology, University of 
Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI
(15)Professor of Medicine, Department of Medicine, Division of Endocrinology and 
Metabolism, Georgetown University Hospital, and Senior Scientist, MedStar Health 
Research Institute, Hyattsville, MD
(16)Director, Emory Global Diabetes Research Center, Ruth and O.C. Hubert 
Professor of Global Health and Epidemiology, Rollins School of Public Health, 
and Professor of Medicine, School of Medicine, Emory University, Atlanta, GA
(17)Professor of Pediatrics and Medicine, Barbara Davis Center for Childhood 
Diabetes, University of Colorado School of Medicine, Aurora, CO
(18)Director, Division of Diabetes, Endocrinology, and Metabolic Diseases, 
National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, National 
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD

The overall population in the United States has experienced a marked decline in 
both all-cause mortality and cardiovascular-related mortality over the last 
several decades, including a decline in mortality of individuals with diabetes. 
However, in association with the obesity epidemic, the prevalence and incidence 
of type 2 diabetes continue to increase. Despite improvements in primary and 
secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease (CVD), diabetes is an 
increasingly important risk factor for CVD, and individuals with diabetes as 
compared to those without diabetes continue to have an increased risk of both 
all-cause and cardiovascular mortality. The evaluation of long-term trends in 
mortality rates of diabetes is particularly challenging. The changing definition 
of diabetes over the last several decades makes the proportion of diabetes 
deaths hard to interpret. In addition, death certificate data regarding diabetes 
are often incomplete and likely underestimate the association of diabetes and 
mortality. Diabetes is the seventh leading cause of death in the United States, 
and individuals with diabetes have a twofold to threefold increased risk of 
mortality compared to individuals without diabetes. Individuals with diabetes 
have a decreased life expectancy by up to 8 years compared to contemporary 
individuals without diabetes. This decrease is due in part to an increased risk 
of CVD and an increasing attributable risk of cardiovascular mortality 
associated with diabetes. The most common nonvascular causes of death from 
diabetes include cancer, renal disease, liver disease, and pneumonia. 
Individuals with diabetes have increased all-cause mortality even after 
adjusting for baseline characteristics, including age, sex, smoking status, and 
body mass index. Control of cardiovascular risk factors has improved over the 
last several decades in the general population, as well as in individuals with 
diabetes. However, many individuals with diabetes remain suboptimally controlled 
based on current standards. Cardiovascular risk factor control has contributed 
to a decrease in national mortality rates over time, but both women and men with 
diabetes remain at higher risk of all-cause and cardiovascular mortality than 
those without diabetes. The above trends highlight several important points. 
First, the prevalence and incidence of diabetes continue to increase. Second, 
despite improvements in cardiovascular risk factor treatment, individuals with 
diabetes are not optimally controlled. Further, the proportion of CVD due to 
diabetes has increased over time, emphasizing the impact of increasing diabetes 
incidence on the burden of CVD. Finally, these findings point to the importance 
of aggressive diabetes and cardiovascular risk factor management to help 
decrease diabetes morbidity and mortality.

PMID: 33651566

Conflict of interest statement: DUALITY OF INTEREST The authors reported no 
conflicts of interest.


187. J Am Coll Surg. 2021 Jul;233(1):140-151. doi:
10.1016/j.jamcollsurg.2021.01.018.  Epub 2021 Feb 27.

Access to Liver Transplantation for Hepatocellular Carcinoma: Does Candidate Age 
Matter?

Ahmed O(1), Vachharajani N(1), Chang SH(2), Park Y(2), Khan AS(1), Chapman 
WC(1), Doyle MB(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Abdominal Organ Transplantation Surgery, Washington University 
School of Medicine, St Louis, MO.
(2)Division of Public Health Sciences, Department of Surgery, Washington 
University School of Medicine, St Louis, MO.
(3)Department of Abdominal Organ Transplantation Surgery, Washington University 
School of Medicine, St Louis, MO. Electronic address: doylem@wustl.edu.

BACKGROUND: Liver transplantation (LT) offers an effective alternative treatment 
for unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Despite its growing acceptance 
and longer life expectancy rates, survival data in older patients are 
conflicting and consensus guidelines are lacking in terms of a cut-off age range 
for operations.
STUDY DESIGN: We explored our prospectively maintained institutional database to 
identify patients diagnosed with HCC between January 1, 2002 and December 31, 
2019. Long-term oncologic outcomes were analyzed in patients undergoing LT or 
hepatic resection, with patient age considered as the primary variable.
RESULTS: In total, 1,629 patients with HCC were identified, of whom 700 were 
considered for curative operations (LT, n = 538; resection, n = 162). Patients 
older than 65 years were less likely to be considered for LT (p < 0.01), 
although there were no age-related differences in the de-listing rate among age 
groups (p = 0.90). Older patients had overall survival (OS) outcomes comparable 
with younger patients after LT (3-year OS: 85.5% vs 84%; 5-year OS: 73.9% vs 
77%; p = 0.26). Long-term survival was lower in the group who underwent 
resection, however, older patients still demonstrated equivalent OS outcomes 
(3-year OS: 59% vs 64.8%; 5-year OS: 44.8% vs 49%; p = 0.13). There were no 
differences in the development of local or distant metastatic disease between 
groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Although older candidates were less likely to be considered for LT 
in the management of HCC, judicious matching can lead to OS data comparable with 
their younger counterparts. Previous age misconceptions need to be challenged 
without the concern of worse long-term oncologic outcomes after surgery.

Copyright © 2021. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jamcollsurg.2021.01.018
PMID: 33652155 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


188. Biomolecules. 2021 Feb 26;11(3):354. doi: 10.3390/biom11030354.

PERK Pathway and Neurodegenerative Disease: To Inhibit or to Activate?

Shacham T(1)(2), Patel C(1)(2), Lederkremer GZ(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Cell Biology Division, George Wise Faculty of Life Sciences, The Shmunis 
School of Biomedicine and Cancer Research, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv 69978, 
Israel.
(2)Sagol School of Neuroscience, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv 69978, Israel.

With the extension of life span in recent decades, there is an increasing burden 
of late-onset neurodegenerative diseases, for which effective treatments are 
lacking. Neurodegenerative diseases include the widespread Alzheimer's disease 
(AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD), the less frequent Huntington's disease (HD) 
and Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) and also rare early-onset diseases 
linked to mutations that cause protein aggregation or loss of function in genes 
that maintain protein homeostasis. The difficulties in applying gene therapy 
approaches to tackle these diseases is drawing increasing attention to 
strategies that aim to inhibit cellular toxicity and restore homeostasis by 
intervening in cellular pathways. These include the unfolded protein response 
(UPR), activated in response to endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress, a cellular 
affliction that is shared by these diseases. Special focus is turned to the 
PKR-like ER kinase (PERK) pathway of the UPR as a target for intervention. 
However, the complexity of the pathway and its ability to promote cell survival 
or death, depending on ER stress resolution, has led to some confusion in 
conflicting studies. Both inhibition and activation of the PERK pathway have 
been reported to be beneficial in disease models, although there are also some 
reports where they are counterproductive. Although with the current knowledge a 
definitive answer cannot be given on whether it is better to activate or to 
inhibit the pathway, the most encouraging strategies appear to rely on boosting 
some steps without compromising downstream recovery.

DOI: 10.3390/biom11030354
PMCID: PMC7996871
PMID: 33652720 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


189. Molecules. 2021 Feb 26;26(5):1263. doi: 10.3390/molecules26051263.

Progresses in Food Packaging, Food Quality, and Safety-Controlled-Release 
Antioxidant and/or Antimicrobial Packaging.

Vasile C(1), Baican M(2).

Author information:
(1)"P. Poni" Institute of Macromolecular Chemistry, 41 A Grigore Ghica Voda 
Alley, 70487 Iasi, Romania.
(2)"Grigore T. Popa" Medicine and Pharmacy University, 16 University Street, 
700115 Iaşi, Romania.

Food packaging is designed to protect foods, to provide required information 
about the food, and to make food handling convenient for distribution to 
consumers. Packaging has a crucial role in the process of food quality, safety, 
and shelf-life extension. Possible interactions between food and packaging are 
important in what is concerning food quality and safety. This review tries to 
offer a picture of the most important types of active packaging emphasizing the 
controlled/target release antimicrobial and/or antioxidant packaging including 
system design, different methods of polymer matrix modification, and processing. 
The testing methods for the appreciation of the performance of active food 
packaging, as well as mechanisms and kinetics implied in active compounds 
release, are summarized. During the last years, many fast advancements in 
packaging technology appeared, including intelligent or smart packaging (IOSP), 
(i.e., time-temperature indicators (TTIs), gas indicators, radiofrequency 
identification (RFID), and others). Legislation is also discussed.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules26051263
PMCID: PMC7956554
PMID: 33652755 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


190. Int J Mol Sci. 2021 Feb 26;22(5):2357. doi: 10.3390/ijms22052357.

Targeting the Autonomic Nervous System for Risk Stratification, Outcome 
Prediction and Neuromodulation in Ischemic Stroke.

Carandina A(1), Lazzeri G(2)(3), Villa D(3)(4), Di Fonzo A(2)(3), Bonato 
S(3)(4), Montano N(1)(5), Tobaldini E(1)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Fondazione IRCCS Ca' Granda, Ospedale 
Maggiore Policlinico, 20122 Milan, Italy.
(2)Neurology Unit, Fondazione IRCCS Ca' Granda, Ospedale Maggiore Policlinico, 
20122 Milan, Italy.
(3)Dino Ferrari Centre, Neuroscience Section, Department of Pathophysiology and 
Transplantation, University of Milan, 20122 Milan, Italy.
(4)Stroke Unit, Fondazione IRCCS Ca' Granda, Ospedale Maggiore Policlinico, 
20122 Milan, Italy.
(5)Department of Clinical Sciences and Community Health, University of Milan, 
20122 Milan, Italy.

Ischemic stroke is a worldwide major cause of mortality and disability and has 
high costs in terms of health-related quality of life and expectancy as well as 
of social healthcare resources. In recent years, starting from the bidirectional 
relationship between autonomic nervous system (ANS) dysfunction and acute 
ischemic stroke (AIS), researchers have identified prognostic factors for risk 
stratification, prognosis of mid-term outcomes and response to recanalization 
therapy. In particular, the evaluation of the ANS function through the analysis 
of heart rate variability (HRV) appears to be a promising non-invasive and 
reliable tool for the management of patients with AIS. Furthermore, preclinical 
molecular studies on the pathophysiological mechanisms underlying the onset and 
progression of stroke damage have shown an extensive overlap with the activity 
of the vagus nerve. Evidence from the application of vagus nerve stimulation 
(VNS) on animal models of AIS and on patients with chronic ischemic stroke has 
highlighted the surprising therapeutic possibilities of neuromodulation. 
Preclinical molecular studies highlighted that the neuroprotective action of VNS 
results from anti-inflammatory, antioxidant and antiapoptotic mechanisms 
mediated by α7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor. Given the proven safety of 
non-invasive VNS in the subacute phase, the ease of its use and its possible 
beneficial effect in hemorrhagic stroke as well, human studies with 
transcutaneous VNS should be less challenging than protocols that involve 
invasive VNS and could be the proof of concept that neuromodulation represents 
the very first therapeutic approach in the ultra-early management of stroke.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms22052357
PMCID: PMC7956667
PMID: 33652990 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


191. Food Microbiol. 2021 Aug;97:103739. doi: 10.1016/j.fm.2021.103739. Epub 2021
Jan  15.

Bioprotective extracts from Lactobacillus acidophilus CRL641 and 
Latilactobacillus curvatus CRL705 inhibit a spoilage exopolysaccharide producer 
in a refrigerated meat system.

Segli F(1), Melian C(1), Muñoz V(1), Vignolo G(1), Castellano P(2).

Author information:
(1)Centro de Referencia para Lactobacilos (CERELA-CONICET), Chacabuco 145, 
T4000ILC, Tucumán, Argentina.
(2)Centro de Referencia para Lactobacilos (CERELA-CONICET), Chacabuco 145, 
T4000ILC, Tucumán, Argentina. Electronic address: patricia@cerela.org.ar.

The effect of bioprotective extracts (BEs) from Latilactobacillus curvatus 
CRL705 and Lactobacillus acidophilus CRL641 against Latilactobacillus sakei 
CRL1407 was evaluated in a refrigerated meat model system under vacuum and 
aerobic conditions at 4 and 10 °C. As shown by culturing, the BE-1 from L. 
acidophilus completely inhibited the spoilage strain, while that from Lat. 
Curvatus CRL705 (BE-2) and its combination with BE-1 exerted a bacteriostatic 
effect. The antimicrobial activity and exopolysaccharide production correlated 
with the efficacy of inhibitory treatment while final pH decrease was higher in 
control samples. When flow cytometry was applied, a lack of correlation with 
plate counting was found; counts under the detection limit for BE-1 at 21 and 28 
days at 4 and 10 °C represented between 64.15 and 73.70% of dead cells. Thus, 
the concurrence of lactic acid bacteria as biocontrol agents and the use of more 
accurate tools to prevent the growth of deteriorating species will contribute to 
the extension of fresh meat shelf-life without quality loss.

Copyright © 2021. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fm.2021.103739
PMID: 33653518 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


192. Sci Rep. 2021 Mar 2;11(1):4934. doi: 10.1038/s41598-021-84193-x.

Fascia lata packing and tension suturing for symptomatic pseudomeningocele after 
recurrent cervical intradural tumour resection.

Xu H(1), Huang Y(#)(2), Zhong Y(#)(3), Lu G(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, The First Affiliated Hospital of Shantou 
University Medical College, Shantou, 515000, China.
(2)Department of Spine Surgery, The First Affiliated Hospital, Sun Yat-Sen 
University, Guangzhou, 510700, China.
(3)Department of Physiology, Guangzhou Medical University, 195 Dongfeng Xi Road, 
Guangzhou, 510000, China.
(4)Department of Neurosurgery, The First Affiliated Hospital of Shantou 
University Medical College, Shantou, 515000, China. lansedeahi@aliyun.com.
(#)Contributed equally

In recurrent posterior cervical intradural tumour resections, serious 
complications can be developed. The dural can become affected by inflammatory 
factors or removed during tumor resection; if cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) leakage 
cannot be stopped by duraplasty, artificial meninges or fascia repair, large 
pseudomeningocele can develop posteriorly within the soft tissue of the neck. 
When the pressure of the CSF cannot be maintained steadily, persistent clinical 
symptoms can occur, such as postural headache or central fever. Moreover, the 
skin can also be penetrated in a few patients even after extension of the 
drainage duration, lumbar cistern drainage or skin suturing, leading to the 
induction of life-threatening intra-cranial infections. Is there a simple and 
effective surgical method to address this scenario? The aim of this study was, 
therefore, to investigate the effectiveness of fascia lata packing and tension 
suturing in the treatment of symptomatic pseudomeningocele after recurrent 
posterior cervical intradural tumour resection. In our study, nine consecutive 
spinal surgery patients were recruited from January 2008 to January 2018. All 
pseudomeningoceles were combined with postural headache, central neurological 
fever or wound non-union. There were 3 cases of melanocytoma, 3 cases of 
nasopharyngeal carcinoma metastasis, 2 cases of breast cancer metastasis, and 1 
case of spinal canal lymphadenoma. Standard patient demographics, diagnosis, 
post-operative symptoms, wound healing time, and the largest pre- and last 
follow-up pseudomeningocele area on axial MRI sections were recorded. All cases 
were followed-up successfully, from 12 to 24 months, with an average of 
15.3 months. Our observations indicate that all wounds healed successfully. The 
wound union time was 20.7 days on average. After wound union, these patients 
became symptom free. The largest cerebrospinal fluid area on axial MRI sections 
improved significantly from 42.9 ± 5.01 cm2 at p re-operation to 6.6 ± 1.89 cm2 
at 1 year post-operation (P < 0.05); Our data indicate that .the proposed 
procedure is simple, safe and effective. And more importantly, it allows rapid 
closure of any cerebrospinal fluid leakage pools.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-021-84193-x
PMCID: PMC7925664
PMID: 33654138 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


193. Int J Ther Massage Bodywork. 2021 Mar 1;14(1):4-11. eCollection 2021 Mar.

Massage for Combat Injuries in Veteran with Undisclosed PTSD: a Retrospective 
Case Report.

Rosenow M(1), Munk N(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Indiana University School of Health & Human Sciences - IUPUI, Indianapolis, 
IN, USA.
(2)Australian Research Centre in Complementary and Integrative Medicine 
(ARCCIM), University of Technology Sydney, Sydney, NSW, Australia.

INTRODUCTION: Massage has shown promise in reducing symptoms related to 
dissociation and anxiety that can exacerbate chronic pain and suffering. The 
combat wounded, veteran population is increasing and requires a 
multidisciplinary approach for comprehensive treatment. This case study examines 
massage therapy use to improve veteran combat injury rehabilitation and recovery 
experience through purposive, retrospective, and comprehensive SOAP note review.
METHODS: A 31-year-old White male received seven, 60-min, full body massages for 
combat related shoulder injury complications incurred approximately six years 
before presentation. The right shoulder sustained a broken humeral head and 
complete dislocation during a defensive maneuver in a life-threatening attack. 
This case study utilized data from three different assessments: goniometric 
measurements for shoulder range of motion, observation and documentation for 
environmental comfort behaviors, and client self-report for treatment goal 
attainment. Six weekly, full body, 60-min massages were completed sequentially. 
A follow-up 60-min treatment was completed at Week 8. Treatment to the injured 
area included focused trigger point therapy, myofascial release, and 
proprioceptive neuromuscular facilitation to the neck, shoulder, and chest.
RESULTS: Total percent change for active flexion, extension, abduction, 
adduction, internal rotation, and external rotation were 12.5, 150, 40, 167, 
14.3, and 0%, respectively. Total percent change for passive flexion, extension, 
abduction, adduction, internal rotation, and external rotation were 63.6, 350, 
66.7, 450, 133, and 77.8%, respectively. Environmental comfort behaviors were 
reduced. Client treatment goals were attained.
CONCLUSIONS: Massage therapy provided meaningful benefit to a combat injury for 
a veteran with PTSD.

Copyright© The Author(s) 2021. Published by the Massage Therapy Foundation.

PMCID: PMC7892331
PMID: 33654501

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICT OF INTEREST NOTIFICATION The authors 
declare there are no conflicts of interest.


194. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2021 Jun;69(6):1659-1669. doi: 10.1111/jgs.17070. Epub
2021  Mar 2.

Referral criteria to specialist palliative care for patients with dementia: A 
systematic review.

Mo L(1)(2), Geng Y(3), Chang YK(1), Philip J(4)(5)(6), Collins A(4), Hui D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Palliative Care, Rehabilitation and Integrative Medicine, 
University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas, USA.
(2)The Center of Gerontology and Geriatrics, National Clinical Research Center 
of Geriatrics, Sichuan University West China Hospital, Chengdu, China.
(3)Research Medical Library, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, 
Houston, Texas, USA.
(4)Department of Medicine, University of Melbourne, Fitzroy, Australia.
(5)Palliative Care Service, St Vincent's Hospital, Fitzroy, Australia.
(6)Palliative Care Service, Royal Melbourne Hospital, Parkville, Australia.

Comment in
    J Am Geriatr Soc. 2021 Jun;69(6):1461-1462.
    J Am Geriatr Soc. 2021 Jul;69(7):2037-2038.
    J Am Geriatr Soc. 2021 Jul;69(7):2038-2039.

BACKGROUND: Patients with dementia often have significant symptom burden and a 
progressive course of functional deterioration. Specialist palliative care 
referral may be helpful, but it is unclear who and when patients should be 
referred. We conducted a systematic review of the literature to examine referral 
criteria for palliative care among patients with dementia.
METHODS: We searched Ovid MEDLINE, Ovid Embase, Ovid PsycInfo, Cochrane Library, 
PubMed, and CINAHL databases for articles from inception to December 3, 2019, 
related to specialist palliative care referral for dementia. Two investigators 
independently reviewed the citations for inclusion, extracted the referral 
criteria, and categorized them thematically.
RESULTS: Of the 1788 citations, 59 articles were included in the final sample. 
We identified 13 categories of referral criteria, including 6 disease-based and 
7 needs-based criteria. The most commonly discussed criterion was "dementia 
stage" (n = 43, 73%), followed by "new diagnosis of dementia" (n = 17, 29%), 
"medical complications of dementia" (n = 12, 20%), "prognosis" (n = 11, 19%), 
and "physical symptoms" (n = 11, 19%). Under dementia stage, 37/44 (84%) 
articles recommended a palliative care referral for advanced dementia. Pneumonia 
(n = 6, 10%), fall/fracture (n = 4, 7%), and decubitus ulcers (n = 4, 7%) were 
most commonly discussed complications to trigger a referral. Under prognosis, 
the time frame for referral varied from <2 years of life expectancy to 
<6 months. 3 (5%) of articles recommended "surprise question" as a potential 
trigger.
CONCLUSIONS: This systematic review highlighted the lack of consensus regarding 
referral criteria for palliative care in patients with dementia and the need to 
identify timely triggers to standardize referral.

© 2021 The American Geriatrics Society.

DOI: 10.1111/jgs.17070
PMCID: PMC8211371
PMID: 33655535 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest: No relevant disclosure 
for all authors.


195. Int J Eat Disord. 2021 May;54(5):851-868. doi: 10.1002/eat.23486. Epub 2021
Mar  2.

Social and economic cost of eating disorders in the United States: Evidence to 
inform policy action.

Streatfeild J(1), Hickson J(1), Austin SB(2)(3)(4)(5), Hutcheson R(5)(6), Kandel 
JS(7), Lampert JG(8)(9), Myers EM(10), Richmond TK(2)(3)(5), Samnaliev 
M(2)(3)(5), Velasquez K(11), Weissman RS(12), Pezzullo L(1).
