(5)Department of Development and Regeneration, Katholieke Universiteit Leuven, 
Leuven, Belgium. elena.levtchenko@uzleuven.be.
(6)Department of Pediatric Nephrology, University Hospital Leuven, Herestraat 
49, Bus 817, 3000, Leuven, Belgium. elena.levtchenko@uzleuven.be.
(7)Department of Pediatric Hematology, University Hospital Leuven, Leuven, 
Belgium.

The life expectancy of individuals with sickle cell disease has increased over 
the years, majorly due to an overall improvement in diagnosis and medical care. 
Nevertheless, this improved longevity has resulted in an increased prevalence of 
chronic complications such as sickle cell nephropathy (SCN), which poses a 
challenge to the medical care of the patient, shortening the lifespan of 
patients by 20-30 years. Clinical presentation of SCN is age-dependent, with 
kidney dysfunction slowly beginning to develop from childhood, progressing to 
chronic kidney disease and kidney failure during the third and fourth decades of 
life. This review explores the epidemiology, pathology, pathophysiology, 
clinical presentation, and management of SCN by focusing on the pediatric 
population. It also discusses the factors that can modify SCN susceptibility.

© 2021. IPNA.

DOI: 10.1007/s00467-021-05126-4
PMID: 34050806 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


439. Environ Pollut. 2021 Sep 15;285:117412. doi: 10.1016/j.envpol.2021.117412.
Epub  2021 May 20.

Improving sustainability and mitigating environmental impacts of agro-biowaste 
compost fertilizer by pelletizing-drying.

Sarlaki E(1), Kermani AM(2), Kianmehr MH(2), Asefpour Vakilian K(3), 
Hosseinzadeh-Bandbafha H(4), Ma NL(5), Aghbashlo M(6), Tabatabaei M(7), Lam 
SS(8).

Author information:
(1)Henan Province Forest Resources Sustainable Development and High-value 
Utilization Engineering Research Center, School of Forestry, Henan Agricultural 
University, Zhengzhou, 450002, China; Department of Agrotechnology, College of 
Abouraihan, University of Tehran, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Department of Agrotechnology, College of Abouraihan, University of Tehran, 
Tehran, Iran.
(3)Department of Biosystems Engineering, Gorgan University of Agricultural 
Sciences and Natural Resources, Gorgan, Iran.
(4)Department of Mechanical Engineering of Agricultural Machinery, Faculty of 
Agricultural Engineering and Technology, College of Agriculture and Natural 
Resources, University of Tehran, Karaj, Iran.
(5)Faculty of Science & Marine Environment, Universiti Malaysia Terengganu, 
21030 Kuala Nerus, Terengganu, Malaysia.
(6)Henan Province Forest Resources Sustainable Development and High-value 
Utilization Engineering Research Center, School of Forestry, Henan Agricultural 
University, Zhengzhou, 450002, China; Department of Mechanical Engineering of 
Agricultural Machinery, Faculty of Agricultural Engineering and Technology, 
College of Agriculture and Natural Resources, University of Tehran, Karaj, Iran. 
Electronic address: maghbashlo@ut.ac.ir.
(7)Henan Province Forest Resources Sustainable Development and High-value 
Utilization Engineering Research Center, School of Forestry, Henan Agricultural 
University, Zhengzhou, 450002, China; Higher Institution Centre of Excellence 
(HICoE), Institute of Tropical Aquaculture and Fisheries (AKUATROP), Universiti 
Malaysia Terengganu, 21030 Kuala Nerus, Terengganu, Malaysia; Biofuel Research 
Team (BRTeam), Terengganu, Malaysia; Microbial Biotechnology Department, 
Agricultural Biotechnology Research Institute of Iran (ABRII), Agricultural 
Research, Education and Extension Organization (AREEO), Karaj, Iran. Electronic 
address: meisam.tabatabaei@umt.edu.my.
(8)Henan Province Forest Resources Sustainable Development and High-value 
Utilization Engineering Research Center, School of Forestry, Henan Agricultural 
University, Zhengzhou, 450002, China; Higher Institution Centre of Excellence 
(HICoE), Institute of Tropical Aquaculture and Fisheries (AKUATROP), Universiti 
Malaysia Terengganu, 21030 Kuala Nerus, Terengganu, Malaysia. Electronic 
address: lam@umt.edu.my.

The use of agro-biowaste compost fertilizers in agriculture is beneficial from 
technical, financial, and environmental perspectives. Nevertheless, the 
physical, mechanical, and agronomical attributes of agro-biowaste compost 
fertilizers should be engineered to reduce their storage, handling, and 
utilization costs and environmental impacts. Pelletizing and drying are 
promising techniques to achieve these goals. In the present work, the effects of 
process parameters, including compost particle size/moisture content, 
pelletizing compression ratio, and drying air temperature/velocity, were 
investigated on the density, specific crushing energy, and moisture diffusion of 
agro-biowaste compost pellet. The Taguchi technique was applied to understand 
the effects of independent parameters on the output responses, while the optimal 
pellet properties were found using the iterative thresholding method. The soil 
and plant (sweet basil) response to the optimal biocompost pellet was 
experimentally evaluated. The farm application of the optimal pellet was also 
compared with the untreated agro-biowaste compost using the life cycle 
assessment approach to investigate the potential environmental impact mitigation 
of the pelletizing and drying processes. Generally, the compost moisture content 
was the most influential factor on the density and specific crushing energy of 
the dried pellet, while the moisture diffusion of the wet pellet during the 
drying process was significantly influenced by the pelletizing compression 
ratio. The density, specific crushing energy, and moisture diffusion of 
agro-biowaste compost pellet at the optimal conditions were 1242.49 kg/m3, 
0.5054 MJ/t, and 8.2 × 10-8 m2/s, respectively. The optimal biocompost pellet 
could release 80% of its nitrogen content evenly over 98 days, while this value 
was 28 days for the chemical urea fertilizer. Besides, the optimal pellet could 
significantly improve the agronomical attributes of the sweet basil plant 
compared with the untreated biocompost. The applied strategy could collectively 
mitigate the weighted environmental impact of farm application of the 
agro-biowaste compost by more than 63%. This reduction could be attributed to 
the fact that the pelletizing-drying processes could avoid methane emissions 
from the untreated agro-biowaste compost during the farm application. Overall, 
pelletizing-drying of the agro-biowaste compost could be regarded as a promising 
strategy to improve the environmental and agronomical performance of farm 
application of organic biofertilizers.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envpol.2021.117412
PMID: 34051566 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


440. Lancet. 2021 Jun 19;397(10292):2337-2360. doi:
10.1016/S0140-6736(21)01169-7.  Epub 2021 May 27.

Spatial, temporal, and demographic patterns in prevalence of smoking tobacco use 
and attributable disease burden in 204 countries and territories, 1990-2019: a 
systematic analysis from the Global Burden of Disease Study 2019.

GBD 2019 Tobacco Collaborators.

Collaborators: Reitsma MB, Kendrick PJ, Ababneh E, Abbafati C, Abbasi-Kangevari 
M, Abdoli A, Abedi A, Abhilash ES, Abila DB, Aboyans V, Abu-Rmeileh NM, Adebayo 
OM, Advani SM, Aghaali M, Ahinkorah BO, Ahmad S, Ahmadi K, Ahmed H, Aji B, 
Akunna CJ, Al-Aly Z, Alanzi TM, Alhabib KF, Ali L, Alif SM, Alipour V, Aljunid 
SM, Alla F, Allebeck P, Alvis-Guzman N, Amin TT, Amini S, Amu H, Amul GGH, 
Ancuceanu R, Anderson JA, Ansari-Moghaddam A, Antonio CAT, Antony B, Anvari D, 
Arabloo J, Arian ND, Arora M, Asaad M, Ausloos M, Awan AT, Ayano G, Aynalem GL, 
Azari S, B DB, Badiye AD, Baig AA, Bakhshaei MH, Banach M, Banik PC, 
Barker-Collo SL, Bärnighausen TW, Barqawi HJ, Basu S, Bayati M, Bazargan-Hejazi 
S, Behzadifar M, Bekuma TT, Bennett DA, Bensenor IM, Berfield KSS, Bhagavathula 
AS, Bhardwaj N, Bhardwaj P, Bhattacharyya K, Bibi S, Bijani A, Bintoro BS, 
Biondi A, Birara S, Braithwaite D, Brenner H, Brunoni AR, Burkart K, Butt ZA, 
Caetano Dos Santos FL, Cámera LA, Car J, Cárdenas R, Carreras G, Carrero JJ, 
Castaldelli-Maia JM, Cattaruzza MSS, Chang JC, Chen S, Chu DT, Chung SC, Cirillo 
M, Costa VM, Couto RAS, Dadras O, Dai X, Damasceno AAM, Damiani G, Dandona L, 
Dandona R, Daneshpajouhnejad P, Darega Gela J, Davletov K, Derbew Molla M, 
Dessie GA, Desta AA, Dharmaratne SD, Dianatinasab M, Diaz D, Do HT, Douiri A, 
Duncan BB, Duraes AR, Eagan AW, Ebrahimi Kalan M, Edvardsson K, Elbarazi I, El 
Tantawi M, Esmaeilnejad S, Fadhil I, Faraon EJA, Farinha CSES, Farwati M, 
Farzadfar F, Fazlzadeh M, Feigin VL, Feldman R, Fernandez Prendes C, Ferrara P, 
Filip I, Filippidis F, Fischer F, Flor LS, Foigt NA, Folayan MO, Foroutan M, Gad 
MM, Gaidhane AM, Gallus S, Geberemariyam BS, Ghafourifard M, Ghajar A, 
Ghashghaee A, Giampaoli S, Gill PS, Glozah FN, Gnedovskaya EV, Golechha M, 
Gopalani SV, Gorini G, Goudarzi H, Goulart AC, Greaves F, Guha A, Guo Y, Gupta 
B, Gupta RD, Gupta R, Gupta T, Gupta V, Hafezi-Nejad N, Haider MR, Hamadeh RR, 
Hankey GJ, Hargono A, Hartono RK, Hassankhani H, Hay SI, Heidari G, Herteliu C, 
Hezam K, Hird TR, Hole MK, Holla R, Hosseinzadeh M, Hostiuc S, Househ M, Hsiao 
T, Huang J, Iannucci VC, Ibitoye SE, Idrisov B, Ilesanmi OS, Ilic IM, Ilic MD, 
Inbaraj LR, Irvani SSN, Islam JY, Islam RM, Islam SMS, Islami F, Iso H, Itumalla 
R, Iwagami M, Jaafari J, Jain V, Jakovljevic M, Jang SI, Janjani H, Jayaram S, 
Jeemon P, Jha RP, Jonas JB, Joo T, Jürisson M, Kabir A, Kabir Z, Kalankesh LR, 
Kanchan T, Kandel H, Kapoor N, Karimi SE, Katikireddi SV, Kebede HK, Kelkay B, 
Kennedy RD, Khoja AT, Khubchandani J, Kim GR, Kim YE, Kimokoti RW, Kivimäki M, 
Kosen S, Koulmane Laxminarayana SL, Koyanagi A, Krishan K, Kugbey N, Kumar GA, 
Kumar N, Kurmi OP, Kusuma D, Lacey B, Lam JO, Landires I, Lasrado S, Lauriola P, 
Lee DW, Lee YH, Leung J, Li S, Lin H, Linn S, Liu W, Lopez AD, Lopukhov PD, 
Lorkowski S, Lugo A, Majeed A, Maleki A, Malekzadeh R, Malta DC, Mamun AA, 
Manjunatha N, Mansouri B, Mansournia MA, Martinez-Raga J, Martini S, Mathur MR, 
Medina-Solís CE, Mehata S, Mendoza W, Menezes RG, Meretoja A, Meretoja TJ, 
Miazgowski B, Michalek IM, Miller TR, Mirrakhimov EM, Mirzaei H, 
Mirzaei-Alavijeh M, Misra S, Moghadaszadeh M, Mohammad Y, Mohammadian-Hafshejani 
A, Mohammed S, Mokdad AH, Monasta L, Moni MA, Moradi G, Moradi-Lakeh M, 
Moradzadeh R, Morrison SD, Mossie TB, Mubarik S, Mullany EC, Murray CJL, Naghavi 
M, Naghshtabrizi B, Nair S, Nalini M, Nangia V, Naqvi AA, Narasimha Swamy S, 
Naveed M, Nayak S, Nayak VC, Nazari J, Nduaguba SO, Neupane Kandel S, Nguyen CT, 
Nguyen HLT, Nguyen SH, Nguyen TH, Nixon MR, Nnaji CA, Norrving B, Noubiap JJ, 
Nowak C, Ogbo FA, Oguntade AS, Oh IH, Olagunju AT, Oren E, Otstavnov N, 
Otstavnov SS, Owolabi MO, P A M, Pakhale S, Pakshir K, Palladino R, Pana A, 
Panda-Jonas S, Pandey A, Parekh U, Park EC, Park EK, Pashazadeh Kan F, Patton 
GC, Pawar S, Pestell RG, Pinheiro M, Piradov MA, Pirouzpanah S, Pokhrel KN, 
Polibin RV, Prashant A, Pribadi DRA, Radfar A, Rahimi-Movaghar V, Rahman A, 
Rahman MHU, Rahman MA, Rahmani AM, Rajai N, Ram P, Ranabhat CL, Rathi P, Rawal 
L, Renzaho AMN, Reynales-Shigematsu LM, Rezapour A, Riahi SM, Riaz MA, Roever L, 
Ronfani L, Roshandel G, Roy A, Roy B, Sacco S, Saddik B, Sahebkar A, Salehi S, 
Salimzadeh H, Samaei M, Samy AM, Santos IS, Santric-Milicevic MM, Sarrafzadegan 
N, Sathian B, Sawhney M, Saylan M, Schaub MP, Schmidt MI, Schneider IJC, Schutte 
AE, Schwendicke F, Seidu AA, Senthil Kumar N, Sepanlou SG, Seylani A, Shafaat O, 
Shah SM, Shaikh MA, Shalash AS, Shannawaz M, Sharafi K, Sheikh A, Sheikhbahaei 
S, Shigematsu M, Shiri R, Shishani K, Shivakumar KM, Shivalli S, Shrestha R, 
Siabani S, Sidemo NB, Sigfusdottir ID, Sigurvinsdottir R, Silva DAS, Silva JP, 
Singh A, Singh JA, Singh V, Sinha DN, Sitas F, Skryabin VY, Skryabina AA, Soboka 
M, Soriano JB, Soroush A, Soshnikov S, Soyiri IN, Spurlock EE, Sreeramareddy CT, 
Stein DJ, Steiropoulos P, Stortecky S, Straif K, Suliankatchi Abdulkader R, Sulo 
G, Sundström J, Tabuchi T, Tadakamadla SK, Taddele BW, Tadesse EG, Tamiru AT, 
Tareke M, Tareque MI, Tarigan IU, Temsah MH, Thankappan KR, Thapar R, Tichopad 
A, Tolani MA, Topouzis F, Tovani-Palone MR, Tran BX, Tripathy JP, Tsegaye GW, 
Tsilimparis N, Tymeson HD, Ullah A, Ullah S, Unim B, Updike RL, Vacante M, 
Valdez PR, Vardavas C, Varona Pérez P, Vasankari TJ, Venketasubramanian N, Verma 
M, Vetrova MV, Vo B, Vu GT, Waheed Y, Wang Y, Welding K, Werdecker A, Whisnant 
JL, Wickramasinghe ND, Yamagishi K, Yandrapalli S, Yatsuya H, Yazdi-Feyzabadi V, 
Yeshaw Y, Yimmer MZ, Yonemoto N, Yu C, Yunusa I, Yusefzadeh H, Zahirian Moghadam 
T, Zaman MS, Zamanian M, Zandian H, Zar HJ, Zastrozhin MS, Zastrozhina A, 
Zavala-Arciniega L, Zhang J, Zhang ZJ, Zhong C, Zuniga YMH, Gakidou E.

Erratum in
    Lancet. 2021 Jun 19;397(10292):2336.

Comment in
    Lancet. 2021 Jun 19;397(10292):2310-2311.

BACKGROUND: Ending the global tobacco epidemic is a defining challenge in global 
health. Timely and comprehensive estimates of the prevalence of smoking tobacco 
use and attributable disease burden are needed to guide tobacco control efforts 
nationally and globally.
METHODS: We estimated the prevalence of smoking tobacco use and attributable 
disease burden for 204 countries and territories, by age and sex, from 1990 to 
2019 as part of the Global Burden of Diseases, Injuries, and Risk Factors Study. 
We modelled multiple smoking-related indicators from 3625 nationally 
representative surveys. We completed systematic reviews and did Bayesian 
meta-regressions for 36 causally linked health outcomes to estimate non-linear 
dose-response risk curves for current and former smokers. We used a direct 
estimation approach to estimate attributable burden, providing more 
comprehensive estimates of the health effects of smoking than previously 
available.
FINDINGS: Globally in 2019, 1·14 billion (95% uncertainty interval 1·13-1·16) 
individuals were current smokers, who consumed 7·41 trillion (7·11-7·74) 
cigarette-equivalents of tobacco in 2019. Although prevalence of smoking had 
decreased significantly since 1990 among both males (27·5% [26·5-28·5] 
reduction) and females (37·7% [35·4-39·9] reduction) aged 15 years and older, 
population growth has led to a significant increase in the total number of 
smokers from 0·99 billion (0·98-1·00) in 1990. Globally in 2019, smoking tobacco 
use accounted for 7·69 million (7·16-8·20) deaths and 200 million (185-214) 
disability-adjusted life-years, and was the leading risk factor for death among 
males (20·2% [19·3-21·1] of male deaths). 6·68 million [86·9%] of 7·69 million 
deaths attributable to smoking tobacco use were among current smokers.
INTERPRETATION: In the absence of intervention, the annual toll of 7·69 million 
deaths and 200 million disability-adjusted life-years attributable to smoking 
will increase over the coming decades. Substantial progress in reducing the 
prevalence of smoking tobacco use has been observed in countries from all 
regions and at all stages of development, but a large implementation gap remains 
for tobacco control. Countries have a clear and urgent opportunity to pass 
strong, evidence-based policies to accelerate reductions in the prevalence of 
smoking and reap massive health benefits for their citizens.
FUNDING: Bloomberg Philanthropies and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.

Copyright © 2021 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an Open 
Access article under the CC BY 4.0 license. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(21)01169-7
PMCID: PMC8223261
PMID: 34051883 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests ViA reports personal 
fees from Bayer Healthcare, Boehringer Ingelheim/Lilly alliance, Bristol Myers 
Squibb/Pfizer alliance, and Novo Nordisk outside of the submitted work. RA 
reports consultancy and speakers' fees from UCB, Sandoz, AbbVie, Zentiva, Teva, 
Laropharm, CEGEDIM, Angelini, Biessen Pharma, Hofigal, AstraZeneca, and Stada 
outside of the submitted work. BeA reports personal fees from Australian 
Institute of Sports; non-financial support from Zydus Cadila; and grants and 
non-financial support from Natural Remedies outside of the submitted work. FG 
was employed by Public Health England during the conduct of the study, which 
does not necessarily endorse this study. GJH reports personal fees from the 
American Heart Association outside of the submitted work. SMSI reports grants 
from National Heart Foundation of Australia and from the Australian National 
Health and Medical Research Council (NHMRC) outside of the submitted work. SVK 
reports grants from Chief Scientist Office and UK Medical Research Council 
during the conduct of the study. KK reports non-financial support from UGC 
Centre of Advanced Study (CAS II), Department of Anthropology, Panjab 
University, Chandigarh, India, outside of the submitted work. StL reports 
personal fees from Akcea Therapeutics, Amedes, AMGEN, Berlin-Chemie, Boehringer 
Ingelheim Pharma, Daiichi Sankyo, Lilly, MSD Sharp & Dohme, Novo Nordisk, 
Sanofi-Aventis, Synlab, Unilever, and Upfield, and non-financial support from 
Preventicus outside of the submitted work. WM is Program Analyst in Population 
and Development at the UN Population Fund-UNFPA Country Office in Peru, which 
does not necessarily endorse this study. TRM reports contracts from Gov't 
Plaintiff Lawyers, JUUL, outside of the submitted work. BoN reports personal 
fees from AstraZeneca and Bayer, outside of the submitted work. SimS reports 
grants, personal fees, and non-financial support from Abbott and Novartis; 
personal fees and non-financial support from Allergan-Abbvie, AstraZeneca, and 
Teva; and personal fees from Eli Lilly and Novo Nordisk outside of the submitted 
work. AES reports personal fees from Takeda, Novartis, Servier, and Omron 
Healthcare outside of the submitted work. JAS reports consultancy fees from 
Crealta/Horizon, Medisys, Fidia, Two Labs Inc, Adept Field Solutions, Clinical 
Care options, Clearview Healthcare Partners, Putnam Associates, Focus Forward, 
Navigant Consulting, Spherix, MedIQ, UBM, Trio Health, Medscape, WebMD, Practice 
Point communications, the National Institutes of Health, and the American 
College of Rheumatology; payment for lectures including service on Simply 
Speaking speaker's bureau; and stock ownership in TPT Global Tech, Vaxart 
pharmaceuticals, and Charlotte's Web Holdings. JAS previously owned stock 
options in Amarin, Viking, and Moderna pharmaceuticals; held placement on the 
steering committee of OMERACT, an international organisation that develops 
measures for clinical trials and receives arm's length funding from 12 
pharmaceutical companies; serves on the US Food and Drug Administration 
Arthritis Advisory Committee; is a member of the Veterans Affairs Rheumatology 
Field Advisory Committee; and is the editor and the director of the UAB Cochrane 
Musculoskeletal Group Satellite Center on Network Meta-analysis. DJS reports 
personal fees from Lundbeck, Takeda, Johnson & Johnson, and Servier outside of 
the submitted work. StS reports grants from Edwards Lifesciences, Medtronic, 
Boston Scientific, and Abbott; and personal fees from Boston Scientific, 
Teleflex, and BTG outside of the submitted work. JS reports ownership in 
companies providing services to Itrim, Amgen, Janssen, Novo Nordisk, Eli Lilly, 
Boehringer, Bayer, Pfizer, and AstraZeneca outside of the submitted work. FT 
reports grants and personal fees from Novartis, Thea, Alcon, Pfizer, and Bayer; 
grants from Bausch & Lomb; and personal fees from Allergan, Omikron, and Santen 
outside of the submitted work. All other authors declare no competing interests.


441. Lancet Public Health. 2021 Jul;6(7):e482-e499. doi: 
10.1016/S2468-2667(21)00065-7. Epub 2021 May 28.

Spatial, temporal, and demographic patterns in prevalence of chewing tobacco use 
in 204 countries and territories, 1990-2019: a systematic analysis from the 
Global Burden of Disease Study 2019.

GBD 2019 Chewing Tobacco Collaborators.

Collaborators: Kendrick PJ, Reitsma MB, Abbasi-Kangevari M, Abdoli A, Abdollahi 
M, Abedi A, Abhilash ES, Aboyans V, Adebayo OM, Advani SM, Ahinkorah BO, Ahmad 
S, Ahmadi K, Ahmed H, Aji B, Akalu Y, Akunna CJ, Alahdab F, Al-Aly Z, Alanezi 
FM, Alanzi TM, Alhabib KF, Ali T, Alif SM, Alipour V, Aljunid SM, Alomari MA, 
Amin TT, Amini S, Amu H, Ancuceanu R, Anderson JA, Andrei CL, Andrei T, 
Ansari-Moghaddam A, Antony B, Anvari D, Arabloo J, Arian ND, Arora M, Artanti 
KD, Asmare WN, Atnafu DD, Ausloos M, Awan AT, Ayano G, Aynalem GL, Azari S, B 
DB, Badiye AD, Baig AA, Banach M, Banerjee SK, Barker-Collo SL, Bärnighausen TW, 
Barqawi HJ, Basu S, Bayati M, Bazargan-Hejazi S, Bekuma TT, Bennett DA, Bensenor 
IM, Benzian H, Benziger CP, Berman AE, Bhagavathula AS, Bhala N, Bhardwaj N, 
Bhardwaj P, Bhattacharyya K, Bibi S, Bijani A, Biondi A, Braithwaite D, Brenner 
H, Brunoni AR, Burkart K, Burugina Nagaraja S, Butt ZA, Caetano Dos Santos FL, 
Car J, Carreras G, Castaldelli-Maia JM, Cattaruzza MSS, Chang JC, Chaturvedi P, 
Chen S, Chido-Amajuoyi OG, Chu DT, Chung SC, Ciobanu LG, Costa VM, Couto RAS, 
Dagnew B, Dai X, Damasceno AAM, Damiani G, Dandona L, Dandona R, 
Daneshpajouhnejad P, Darega Gela J, Derbew Molla M, Desta AA, Dharmaratne SD, 
Dhimal M, Eagan AW, Ebrahimi Kalan M, Edvardsson K, Effiong A, El Tantawi M, 
Elbarazi I, Esmaeilnejad S, Fadhil I, Faraon EJA, Farwati M, Farzadfar F, 
Fazlzadeh M, Feigin VL, Feldman R, Filip I, Filippidis F, Fischer F, Flor LS, 
Foigt NA, Folayan MO, Foroutan M, Gad MM, Gallus S, Geberemariyam BS, 
Gebregiorgis BG, Getacher L, Getachew Obsa A, Ghafourifard M, Ghanei Gheshlagh 
R, Ghashghaee A, Ghith N, Gil GF, Gill PS, Ginawi IA, Goharinezhad S, Golechha 
M, Gopalani SV, Gorini G, Grivna M, Guha A, Guimarães RA, Guo Y, Gupta RD, Gupta 
R, Gupta T, Gupta V, Hafezi-Nejad N, Haider MR, Hamadeh RR, Hankey GJ, Hargono 
A, Hay SI, Heidari G, Herteliu C, Hezam K, Hird TR, Holla R, Hosseinzadeh M, 
Hostiuc M, Hostiuc S, Househ M, Hsiao T, Huang J, Ibeneme CU, Ibitoye SE, Ilic 
IM, Ilic MD, Inbaraj LR, Irvani SSN, Islam JY, Islam RM, Islam SMS, Islami F, 
Iso H, Itumalla R, Jaafari J, Jain V, Jakovljevic M, Jang SI, Jayaram S, Jeemon 
P, Jha RP, Jonas JB, Jürisson M, Kabir A, Kabir Z, Kalankesh LR, Kanchan T, 
Kandel H, Kapoor N, Karch A, Karimi SE, Kebede KM, Kelkay B, Kennedy RD, Khader 
YS, Khan EA, Khayamzadeh M, Kim GR, Kimokoti RW, Kivimäki M, Kosen S, Koulmane 
Laxminarayana SL, Koyanagi A, Krishan K, Kugbey N, Kumar GA, Kumar N, Kurmi OP, 
Kusuma D, Lacey B, Landires I, Lasrado S, Lauriola P, Lee DW, Lee YH, Leung J, 
Li S, Lin H, Liu W, Lugo A, Madhava Kunjathur S, Majeed A, Maleki A, Malekzadeh 
R, Malta DC, Mamun AA, Manjunatha N, Mansouri B, Mansournia MA, Martini S, 
Mathur MR, Mathur P, Mazidi M, McKee M, Medina-Solís CE, Mehata S, Mendoza W, 
Menezes RG, Miazgowski B, Michalek IM, Miller TR, Mini GK, Mirica A, Mirrakhimov 
EM, Mirzaei H, Misra S, Mohammad Y, Mohammadian-Hafshejani A, Mohammed S, Mokdad 
AH, Molokhia M, Monasta L, Moni MA, Moradzadeh R, Morrison SD, Mossie TB, 
Mubarik S, Mullany EC, Murray CJL, Nagaraju SP, Naghavi M, Naik N, Nalini M, 
Nangia V, Naqvi AA, Narasimha Swamy S, Naveed M, Nazari J, Nduaguba SO, Negoi 
RI, Neupane Kandel S, Nguyen HLT, Nigatu YT, Nixon MR, Nnaji CA, Noubiap JJ, 
Nowak C, Nuñez-Samudio V, Ogbo FA, Oguntade AS, Oh IH, Olagunju AT, Owolabi MO, 
P A M, Pakshir K, Pana A, Panagiotakos D, Panda-Jonas S, Pandey A, Parekh U, 
Park EC, Park EK, Pashazadeh Kan F, Pathak M, Pawar S, Pestell RG, Pham HQ, 
Pinheiro M, Pokhrel KN, Pourshams A, Prashant A, Radfar A, Rahimi-Movaghar V, 
Rahman MHU, Rahman MA, Rahmani AM, Ram P, Rana J, Ranabhat CL, Rathi P, Rawaf 
DL, Rawaf S, Rawassizadeh R, Renzaho AMN, Rezapour A, Riaz MA, Roever L, Ronfani 
L, Roshandel G, Roy A, Roy B, Saddik B, Sahebkar A, Salehi S, Salimzadeh H, Samy 
AM, Sanabria J, Santric-Milicevic MM, Sao Jose BP, Sathian B, Sawhney M, Saya 
GK, Schwendicke F, Seidu AA, Senthil Kumar N, Sepanlou SG, Shafaat O, Shah SM, 
Shaikh MA, Shannawaz M, Sharafi K, Sheikh A, Sheikhbahaei S, Shigematsu M, Shiri 
R, Shishani K, Shivakumar KM, Shivalli S, Shrestha R, Siabani S, Sidemo NB, 
Sigfusdottir ID, Sigurvinsdottir R, Silva JP, Singh A, Singh JA, Singh V, Sinha 
DN, Skryabin VY, Skryabina AA, Soroush A, Soyiri IN, Sreeramareddy CT, Stein DJ, 
Steiropoulos P, Stortecky S, Straif K, Suliankatchi Abdulkader R, Sulo G, 
Sundström J, Tabuchi T, Tadesse EG, Tamiru AT, Tareke M, Tareque MI, Tarigan IU, 
Thakur B, Thankappan KR, Thapar R, Tolani MA, Tovani-Palone MR, Tran BX, 
Tripathy JP, Tsegaye GW, Tymeson HD, Ullah S, Unim B, Updike RL, Uthman OA, 
Vacante M, Vardavas C, Venketasubramanian N, Verma M, Vidale S, Vo B, Vu GT, 
Waheed Y, Wang Y, Welding K, Werdecker A, Whisnant JL, Wickramasinghe ND, 
Wubishet BL, Yamagishi K, Yano Y, Yazdi-Feyzabadi V, Yeshaw Y, Yimmer MZ, 
Yonemoto N, Yousefi Z, Yu C, Yunusa I, Yusefzadeh H, Zaman MS, Zamani M, 
Zamanian M, Zastrozhin MS, Zastrozhina A, Zhang J, Zhang ZJ, Zhong C, Zuniga 
YMH, Gakidou E.

Erratum in
    Lancet Public Health. 2021 Jul;6(7):e449.

BACKGROUND: Chewing tobacco and other types of smokeless tobacco use have had 
less attention from the global health community than smoked tobacco use. 
However, the practice is popular in many parts of the world and has been linked 
to several adverse health outcomes. Understanding trends in prevalence with age, 
over time, and by location and sex is important for policy setting and in 
relation to monitoring and assessing commitment to the WHO Framework Convention 
on Tobacco Control.
METHODS: We estimated prevalence of chewing tobacco use as part of the Global 
Burden of Diseases, Injuries, and Risk Factors Study 2019 using a modelling 
strategy that used information on multiple types of smokeless tobacco products. 
We generated a time series of prevalence of chewing tobacco use among 
individuals aged 15 years and older from 1990 to 2019 in 204 countries and 
territories, including age-sex specific estimates. We also compared these trends 
to those of smoked tobacco over the same time period.
FINDINGS: In 2019, 273·9 million (95% uncertainty interval 258·5 to 290·9) 
people aged 15 years and older used chewing tobacco, and the global 
age-standardised prevalence of chewing tobacco use was 4·72% (4·46 to 5·01). 
228·2 million (213·6 to 244·7; 83·29% [82·15 to 84·42]) chewing tobacco users 
lived in the south Asia region. Prevalence among young people aged 15-19 years 
was over 10% in seven locations in 2019. Although global age-standardised 
prevalence of smoking tobacco use decreased significantly between 1990 and 2019 
(annualised rate of change: -1·21% [-1·26 to -1·16]), similar progress was not 
observed for chewing tobacco (0·46% [0·13 to 0·79]). Among the 12 highest 
prevalence countries (Bangladesh, Bhutan, Cambodia, India, Madagascar, Marshall 
Islands, Myanmar, Nepal, Pakistan, Palau, Sri Lanka, and Yemen), only Yemen had 
a significant decrease in the prevalence of chewing tobacco use, which was among 
males between 1990 and 2019 (-0·94% [-1·72 to -0·14]), compared with nine of 12 
countries that had significant decreases in the prevalence of smoking tobacco. 
Among females, none of these 12 countries had significant decreases in 
prevalence of chewing tobacco use, whereas seven of 12 countries had a 
significant decrease in the prevalence of tobacco smoking use for the period.
INTERPRETATION: Chewing tobacco remains a substantial public health problem in 
several regions of the world, and predominantly in south Asia. We found little 
change in the prevalence of chewing tobacco use between 1990 and 2019, and that 
control efforts have had much larger effects on the prevalence of smoking 
tobacco use than on chewing tobacco use in some countries. Mitigating the health 
effects of chewing tobacco requires stronger regulations and policies that 
specifically target use of chewing tobacco, especially in countries with high 
prevalence.
FUNDING: Bloomberg Philanthropies and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.

Copyright © 2021 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an Open 
Access article under the CC BY 4.0 license. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S2468-2667(21)00065-7
PMCID: PMC8251505
PMID: 34051920 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests ViA reports personal 
fees from Bayer Healthcare, Boehringer Ingelheim/Lilly alliance, Bristol Myers 
Squibb/Pfizer alliance, and Novo Nordisk outside of the submitted work. RA 
reports consultancy and speakers' fees from UCB, Sandoz, AbbVie, Zentiva, Teva, 
Laropharm, Cegedim, Angelini, B Braun, Biessen Pharma, Hofigal, AstraZeneca, and 
Stada. BA reports personal fees from Australian Institute of Sports, grants and 
non-financial support from Natural Remedies, and non-financial support from 
Zydus Cadila outside of the submitted work. SI reports grants from National 
Heart Foundation of Australia, and Australian National Health and Medical 
Research Council outside the submitted work. KK reports non-financial support 
from UGC Centre of Advanced Study (CAS II), Department of Anthropology, Panjab 
University, Chandigarh, India, outside of the submitted work. TRM reports 
contracts from Gov't Plaintiff Lawyers, JUUL, outside of the submitted work. JAS 
reports consultancy fees from Crealta/Horizon, Medisys, Fidia, Two Labs Inc, 
Adept Field Solutions, Clinical Care Options, Clearview Healthcare Partners, 
Putnam Associates, Focus Forward, Navigant Consulting, Spherix, MedIQ, UBM LLC, 
Trio Health, Medscape, WebMD, Practice Point Communications, and the National 
Institutes of Health and the American College of Rheumatology; receives payment 
for lectures as a member on the speaker's bureau of Simply Speaking; owns stock 
options in TPT Global Tech, Vaxart pharmaceuticals, and Charlotte's Web 
Holdings; previously owned stock options in Amarin, Viking, and Moderna 
pharmaceuticals; held a placement on the steering committee of OMERACT, an 
international organisation that develops measures for clinical trials and 
receives arm's length funding from 12 pharmaceutical companies; serves on the US 
Food and Drug Administration Arthritis Advisory Committee; is a member of the 
Veterans Affairs Rheumatology Field Advisory Committee; is the editor and is the 
Director of the University of Alabama at Birmingham Cochrane Musculoskeletal 
Group Satellite Center on Network Meta-analysis, all outside of the submitted 
work. JS reports ownership of companies providing services to Itrim, Amgen, 
Janssen, Novo Nordisk, Eli Lilly, Boehringer Ingelheim, Bayer, Pfizer, and 
AstraZeneca outside of the submitted work. DJS reports personal fees from 
Lundbeck, Takeda, Johnson & Johnson, and Servier outside of the submitted work. 
SS reports grants from Edwards Lifesciences, Medtronic, Boston Scientific, and 
Abbott; and personal fees from Boston Scientific, Teleflex, and BTG outside of 
the submitted work. All other authors declare no competing interests.


442. J Hepatol. 2021 Oct;75(4):924-934. doi: 10.1016/j.jhep.2021.05.014. Epub
2021  May 28.

Co-expression gene network analysis reveals novel regulatory pathways involved 
in porto-sinusoidal vascular disease.

Hernández-Gea V(1), Campreciós G(2), Betancourt F(3), Pérez-Campuzano V(3), 
Seijo S(3), Díaz A(4), Gallego-Durán R(5), Olivas P(3), Orts L(3), Magaz M(3), 
Baiges A(2), Turon F(2), Sidorova J(6), Romero-Gómez M(5), Lozano JJ(6), 
García-Pagán JC(7).

Author information:
(1)Barcelona Hepatic Hemodynamic Laboratory, Liver Unit, Hospital Clínic, 
IDIBAPS, University of Barcelona, Health Care Provider of the European Reference 
Network on Rare Liver Disorders (ERN-Liver), Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain; Centro 
de Investigación Biomédica Red de Enfermedades Hepáticas y Digestivas 
(CIBEREHD), Spain. Electronic address: vihernandez@clinic.cat.
(2)Barcelona Hepatic Hemodynamic Laboratory, Liver Unit, Hospital Clínic, 
IDIBAPS, University of Barcelona, Health Care Provider of the European Reference 
Network on Rare Liver Disorders (ERN-Liver), Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain; Centro 
de Investigación Biomédica Red de Enfermedades Hepáticas y Digestivas 
(CIBEREHD), Spain.
(3)Barcelona Hepatic Hemodynamic Laboratory, Liver Unit, Hospital Clínic, 
IDIBAPS, University of Barcelona, Health Care Provider of the European Reference 
Network on Rare Liver Disorders (ERN-Liver), Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain.
(4)Pathology Department, Biomedical Diagnostic Centre, Hospital Clínic 
Barcelona, Institut d'Investigacions Biomèdiques August Pi i Sunyer, Catalonia, 
Spain.
(5)Digestive Diseases Unit, Hospital Universitario Virgen del Rocío. SeLiver 
group, Instituto de Biomedicina de Sevilla/CSIC/Universidad de Sevilla, Sevilla, 
Spain; Centro de Investigación Biomédica Red de Enfermedades Hepáticas y 
Digestivas (CIBEREHD), Spain.
(6)Bioinformatic Platform, Centro de Investigación Biomédica Red de Enfermedades 
Hepáticas y Digestivas (CIBEREHD), Spain.
(7)Barcelona Hepatic Hemodynamic Laboratory, Liver Unit, Hospital Clínic, 
IDIBAPS, University of Barcelona, Health Care Provider of the European Reference 
Network on Rare Liver Disorders (ERN-Liver), Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain; Centro 
de Investigación Biomédica Red de Enfermedades Hepáticas y Digestivas 
(CIBEREHD), Spain. Electronic address: jcgarcia@clinic.cat.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: Porto-sinusoidal vascular disease (PSVD) is a rare vascular 
liver disease of unknown etiology that causes portal hypertension. It usually 
affects young individuals and shortens live expectancy. The deregulated pathways 
involved in PSVD development are unknown and therefore we lack curative 
treatments. The purpose of this study was to integrate transcriptomic and 
clinical data by comprehensive network-based modeling in order to uncover 
altered biological processes in patients with PSVD.
METHODS: We obtained liver tissue samples from 20 consecutive patients with PSVD 
and 21 sex- and age-matched patients with cirrhosis and 13 histologically normal 
livers (HNL) (initial cohort) and performed transcriptomic analysis. Microarray 
data were analyzed using weighted gene correlation network analysis to identify 
clusters of highly correlated genes differently expressed in patients with PSVD. 
We next evaluated the molecular pathways enriched in patients with PSVD and the 
core-related genes from the most significantly enriched pathways in patients 
with PSVD. Our main findings were validated using RNA sequencing in a different 
cohort of PSVD, cirrhosis and HNL (n = 8 for each group).
RESULTS: Patients with PSVD have a distinctive genetic profile enriched mainly 
in canonical pathways involving hemostasis and coagulation but also lipid 
metabolism and oxidative phosphorylation. Serpin family (SERPINC1), the 
apolipoproteins (APOA, APOB, APOC), ATP synthases (ATP5G1, ATP5B), fibrinogen 
genes (FGB, FGA) and alpha-2-macroglobulin were identified as highly connective 
genes that may have an important role in PSVD pathogenesis.
CONCLUSION: PSVD has a unique transcriptomic profile and we have identified 
deregulation of pathways involved in vascular homeostasis as the main pathogenic 
event of disease development.
LAY SUMMARY: Porto-sinusoidal vascular disease is a rare but life-shortening 
disease that affects mainly young people. Knowledge of the disrupted pathways 
involved in its development will help to identify novel therapeutic targets and 
new treatments. Using a systems biology approach, we identify that pathways 
regulating endothelial function and tone may act as drivers of porto-sinusoidal 
vascular disease.

Copyright © 2021. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhep.2021.05.014
PMID: 34052252 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest The authors involved in 
this study declare they do not have anything to disclose regarding funding or 
conflict of interest with respect to this manuscript. Please refer to the 
accompanying ICMJE disclosure forms for further details.


443. Environ Pollut. 2021 Oct 15;287:117211. doi: 10.1016/j.envpol.2021.117211.
Epub  2021 May 3.

Air pollution control efficacy and health impacts: A global observational study 
from 2000 to 2016.

Han C(1), Xu R(2), Zhang Y(3), Yu W(2), Zhang Z(4), Morawska L(5), Heyworth 
J(6), Jalaludin B(7), Morgan G(8), Marks G(9), Abramson M(2), Sun L(4), Li 
S(10), Guo Y(11).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health and Management, Binzhou Medical University, Yantai, 
Shandong Province, 264003, PR China; School of Public Health and Preventive 
Medicine, Monash University, Melbourne, VIC, 3004, Australia.
(2)School of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, Monash University, 
Melbourne, VIC, 3004, Australia.
(3)School of Public Health and Management, Ningxia Medical University, Yinchuan, 
Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region, 750004, PR China.
(4)School of Public Health and Management, Binzhou Medical University, Yantai, 
Shandong Province, 264003, PR China.
(5)International Laboratory for Air Quality and Health, Queensland University of 
Technology, Brisbane, QLD, 4001, Australia.
(6)School of Population and Global Health, The University of Western Australia, 
Crawley, WA, 6009, Australia.
(7)School of Population Health, The University of New South Wales, Kensington, 
NSW, 2052, Australia.
(8)School of Public Health, The University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, 2006, 
Australia.
(9)South Western Sydney Clinical School, The University of New South Wales, 
Sydney, NSW, 2170, Australia.
(10)School of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, Monash University, 
Melbourne, VIC, 3004, Australia. Electronic address: Shanshan.Li@monash.edu.
(11)School of Public Health and Management, Binzhou Medical University, Yantai, 
Shandong Province, 264003, PR China; School of Public Health and Preventive 
Medicine, Monash University, Melbourne, VIC, 3004, Australia. Electronic 
address: Yuming.Guo@monash.edu.

Particulate matter with aerodynamic diameter ≤2.5 μm (PM2.5) concentrations vary 
between countries with similar carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions, which can be 
partially explained by differences in air pollution control efficacy. However, 
no indicator of air pollution control efficacy has yet been developed. We aimed 
to develop such an indicator, and to evaluate its global and temporal 
distribution and its association with country-level health metrics. A novel 
indicator, ambient population-weighted average PM2.5 concentration per unit per 
capita CO2 emission (PM2.5/CO2), was developed to assess country-specific air 
pollution control efficacy (abbreviated as APCI). We estimated and mapped the 
global average distribution of APCI and its changes during 2000-2016 across 196 
countries. Pearson correlation coefficients and Generalized Additive Mixed Model 
(GAMM) were used to evaluate the relationship between APCI and health metrics. 
APCI varied by country with an inverse association with economic development. 
APCI showed an almost stable trend globally from 2000 to 2016, with the 
low-income groups increased and several countries (China, India, Bangladesh) 
decreased. The Pearson correlation coefficients between APCI and life expectancy 
at birth (LE), infant-mortality rate (IMR), under-five year of age mortality 
rate (U5MR) and logarithm of per capita GDP (LPGDP) were -0.57, 0.65, 0.66, 
-0.59 respectively (all P values < 0.001). APCI could explain international 
variation of LE, IMR and U5MR. The associations between APCI and LE, IMR, U5MR 
were independent of per capita GDP and climatic factors. We consider APCI to be 
a good indicator for air pollution control efficacy given its relation to 
important population health indicators. Our findings provide a new metric to 
interpret health inequity across the globe from the point of climate change and 
air pollution control efficacy.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envpol.2021.117211
PMID: 34052602 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


444. Int J Surg Case Rep. 2021 Jun;83:105988. doi: 10.1016/j.ijscr.2021.105988.
Epub  2021 May 15.

Internal jugular vein thrombosis by sewing needle ingestion.

Bendiouri R(1), Chennoufi I(2), Lachkar A(2), Benfadil D(2), Abdenbi A(2), 
Elayoubi F(2), Ghailan MR(2).

Author information:
(1)Mohammed First University, Faculty of Medicine and Pharmacy, Oujda, Morocco; 
University Hospital Center Mohamed VI, Oujda, Morocco. Electronic address: 
dr.reda.bendiouri@gmail.com.
(2)Mohammed First University, Faculty of Medicine and Pharmacy, Oujda, Morocco; 
University Hospital Center Mohamed VI, Oujda, Morocco.

INTRODUCTION: The internal jugular vein thrombosis is usually due to intravenous 
drug abuse, prolonged central venous catheterization or deep head-neck 
infections or trauma. Related malignancies, or inflammatory etiologies are 
described. Our case is interesting by the ingestion of a sewing needle that 
passes from the pharynx to the internal jugular vein via migration, leading to 
life-threatening complications: deep neck space infection and internal jugular 
vein thrombosis.
CASE REPORT: We report a case of a 40 years old patient, for acute cervical 
cellulitis in a context of odynophagia and fever, a CT scan revealed a jugular 
vein thrombosis, penetrated by a metal density foreign body. The diagnosis of 
ingested foreign body complicated by cervical cellulitis and thrombosis of the 
internal jugular vein was made. The patient underwent neck surgery with 
intravenous antibiotics. The postoperative course was uneventful, after one year 
of follow-up, no complications have been observed.
DISCUSSION: no consensus has been reached concerning the management of 
postoperative and post traumatic vein thrombosis. Taking into account the risk 
of extension of the thrombus and the hemorrhagic risk each case should involve 
discussions among a multidisciplinary team.
CONCLUSION: The internal jugular vein thrombosis is a rare complication of 
ingested foreign bodies which may lead to life threat. The early diagnosis and 
adequate treatment of its life-threatening complications may result in excellent 
prognosis.

Copyright © 2021 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijscr.2021.105988
PMCID: PMC8176300
PMID: 34052713

Conflict of interest statement: All authors disclose any conflicts of interest.


445. BJS Open. 2021 May 7;5(3):zrab020. doi: 10.1093/bjsopen/zrab020.

Impact of neoadjuvant chemotherapy on thrombus viability in patients with Wilms 
tumour and caval extension: systematic review with meta-analysis.

Boam TD(1), Gabriel M(2), Shukla R(3), Losty PD(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatric Surgery, Chelsea and Westminster Hospital, London, 
UK.
(2)Department of Paediatric Surgery, Norfolk and Norwich Hospital, Norwich, UK.
(3)Department of Pathology, Alder Hey Children's Hospital, Liverpool, UK.
(4)Alder Hey Children's Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, School of Health and Life 
Science, University of Liverpool, UK.

BACKGROUND: Inferior vena cava (IVC) tumour thrombus in children with Wilms 
tumour is typically managed with neoadjuvant chemotherapy with the intention of 
achieving thrombus regression in order to minimize the risks associated with 
complex vascular surgery.
METHODS: A systematic review of Medline and Embase databases was undertaken to 
identify all eligible studies with reference to thrombus viability in Wilms 
tumour index cases with caval/cardiac extension. A meta-analysis of proportions 
was utilized for pooled thrombus viability data across studies. Logistic 
regression was used to analyse the relationship between thrombus viability and 
duration of chemotherapy.
RESULTS: Thirty-five eligible observational studies and case reports met 
inclusion criteria describing a total of 236 patients with thrombus viability 
data. The pooled proportion of patients with viable tumour thrombus after 
neoadjuvant chemotherapy was 0.53 (0.43-0.63). Logistic regression analysis of 
54 patients receiving either a standard (4-6 weeks) or extended (more than 
6 weeks) course of neoadjuvant chemotherapy resulted in an odds ratio of 3.14 
(95 per cent c.i. 0.97 to 10.16), P = 0.056, with extended course therapy 
trending towards viable tumour thrombus.
CONCLUSION: Preoperative chemotherapy is successful in achieving non-viability 
of caval and cardiac thrombi in around 50 per cent of children, without added 
benefit from extended cycles of neoadjuvant chemotherapy. Risks versus benefits 
of extirpative vascular surgery must be considered, therefore, for these 
high-risk patients.

© The Author(s) 2021. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of BJS 
Society Ltd.

DOI: 10.1093/bjsopen/zrab020
PMCID: PMC8164777
PMID: 34052849 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


446. Int Arch Occup Environ Health. 2021 Aug;94(6):1375-1383. doi: 
10.1007/s00420-021-01710-1. Epub 2021 May 30.

Associations between work-related stressors and QALY in a general working 
population in Japan: a cross-sectional study.

Hidaka Y(1), Imamura K(1), Watanabe K(2), Tsutsumi A(2), Shimazu A(3), Inoue 
A(4), Hiro H(5), Odagiri Y(6), Asai Y(1), Yoshikawa T(7), Yoshikawa E(8), 
Kawakami N(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Mental Health, Graduate School of Medicine, The University of 
Tokyo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo, Japan.
(2)Department of Public Health, Kitasato University School of Medicine, 
Sagamihara-shi, Kanagawa, Japan.
(3)Faculty of Policy Management, Keio University, Fujisawa-shi, Kanagawa, Japan.
(4)Institutional Research Center, University of Occupational and Environmental 
Health Japan, Kitakyushu-shi, Fukuoka, Japan.
(5)Center for Research and Practice on Occupational Mental Health, Yokohama-shi 
Kanagawa, Tokyo, Japan.
(6)Department of Preventive Medicine and Public Health, Tokyo Medical 
University, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo, Japan.
(7)National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health Japan, Kawasaki, Japan.
(8)Faculty of Nursing, Japanese Red Cross College of Nursing, Shibuya-ku, Tokyo, 
Japan.
(9)Department of Mental Health, Graduate School of Medicine, The University of 
Tokyo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo, Japan. nkawakami@m.u-tokyo.ac.jp.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate an association between quality-adjusted life years 
(QALY) and work-related stressors (job strain, effort/reward imbalance, and poor 
support from supervisor and coworkers), and estimate loss in QALY caused by 
these stressors.
METHODS: A cross-sectional study investigated data from a third-wave survey (in 
December 2017) of a 2-year prospective cohort study of Japanese workers. At 
baseline (first-wave survey), 5000 participants were recruited from workers who 
registered with an internet survey company. A total of 2530 participants 
responded to the second-wave survey 1 year later. Participants were then further 
recruited to the third-wave survey. An online questionnaire collected 
information regarding health-related quality of life (measured by EQ-5D-5L), job 
strain, supervisor and coworker support (Brief Job Stress Questionnaire), 
effort/reward imbalance (Effort/reward Imbalance Questionnaire), and demographic 
variables (age, sex, education, occupation, work contract, smoking, and alcohol 
drinking). Multiple linear regression analysis of the QALY score calculated from 
responses to EQ-5D-5L was employed on standardized scores of the work-related 
stressors and adjusted for demographic variables (SPSS version 26).
RESULTS: Data of 1986 participants were analyzed. Job strain (unstandardized 
coefficient, b =  - 0.013, p < 0.01) and effort/reward imbalance (b =  - 0.011, 
p < 0.01) and coworker support (b = 0017, p < 0.01) were significantly 
associated with QALY score in the fully adjusted model.
CONCLUSION: Job strain, effort/reward imbalance, and poor coworker support may 
be associated with a reduced QALY score among workers. A substantial impairment 
in QALY associated with the work-related stressors indicates that workplace 
interventions targeting work-related stressors may be cost-effective.

© 2021. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00420-021-01710-1
PMID: 34052861 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


447. J Clin Immunol. 2021 Aug;41(6):1339-1351. doi: 10.1007/s10875-021-01053-z.
Epub  2021 May 29.

Consensus Middle East and North Africa Registry on Inborn Errors of Immunity.

Aghamohammadi A(1), Rezaei N(1), Yazdani R(1), Delavari S(1), Kutukculer N(2), 
Topyildiz E(2), Ozen A(3)(4), Baris S(3)(4), Karakoc-Aydiner E(3)(4), Kilic 
SS(5), Kose H(5), Gulez N(6), Genel F(6), Reisli I(7), Djenouhat K(8), Tahiat 
A(8), Boukari R(9), Ladj S(9), Belbouab R(9), Ferhani Y(9), Belaid B(10), 
Djidjik R(10), Kechout N(11), Attal N(11), Saidani K(11), Barbouche R(12), 
Bousfiha A(13), Sobh A(14), Rizk R(14), Elnagdy MH(15), Al-Ahmed M(16)(17), 
Al-Tamemi S(18), Nasrullayeva G(19), Adeli M(20), Al-Nesf M(21), Hassen A(20), 
Mehawej C(22), Irani C(23), Megarbane A(22), Quinn J(24); MENA-I. E. I. Study 
Group; Maródi L(25)(26), Modell V(24), Modell F(24), Al-Herz W(27)(28), Geha 
RS(29), Abolhassani H(30)(31).

Collaborators: Chavoshzadeh Z, Mahdaviani SA, Nabavi M, Tavakol M, Behniafard N, 
Momen T, Azizi G, Bemanian MH, Arshi S, Molatefi R, Sherkat R, Shirkani A, Amin 
R, Aleyasin S, Faridhosseini R, Jabbari-Azad F, Ahanchian H, Khoshkhui M, 
Shafiei A, Kalantari A, Mohammadzadeh I, Ghaffari J, Cheraghi T, Mansouri M, 
Mesdaghi M, Babaie D, Eslamian MH, Dabbaghzadeh A, Tavassoli M, Ghasemi R, 
Kalmarzi RN, Mortazavi SH, Kashef S, Esmaeilzadeh H, Tafaroji J, Khalili A, 
Zandieh F, Sadeghi-Shabestari M, Darougar S, Behmanesh F, Akbari H, Zandkarimi 
M, Abolnezhadian F, Fayezi A, Torabizadeh M, Moghtaderi M, Soheili H, 
Ahmadiafshar A, Shakerian B, Sajedi V, Taghvaei B, Safari M, Heidarzadeh M, 
Ghalebaghi B, Fathi SM, Darabi B, Darabi K, Bazregari S, Bazargan N, Fallahpour 
M, Khayatzadeh A, Bashardoust B, Sadri H, Zamani M, Mohsenzadeh A, Ebrahimi S, 
Ghaemi R, Mehrjerdi FZ, Sharafian S, Nabavizadeh SH, Baniadam L, Salari F, 
Rekabi M, Vosughimotlagh A, Tafakoridelbari M, Pourvali A, Rezaei A, Hamidieh 
AA, Shariat M, Gharagozlou M, Movahedi M, Parvaneh N, Karaca NE, Aksu G, Eltan 
SB, Kasap N, Kolukisa B, Sefer AP, Yalcin E, Babayeva R, Mahammed LL, Al-Khabaz 
A.

Author information:
(1)Research Center for Immunodeficiencies, Pediatrics Center of Excellence, 
Children's Medical Center, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Department of Pediatric Immunology, Ege University Faculty of Medicine, 
Bornova-İzmir, Turkey.
(3)Faculty of Medicine, Pediatric Allergy and Immunology, Marmara University, 
Istanbul, Turkey.
(4)The Isil Berat Barlan Center for Translational Medicine, Istanbul Jeffrey 
Modell Foundation Diagnostic Center for Primary Immune Deficiencies, Istanbul, 
Turkey.
(5)Uludag University, Medical Faculty, Department of Pediatric Immunology and 
Rheumatology, Bursa, Turkey.
(6)Department of Pediatric Immunology and Allergy, University of Health Sciences 
Dr. Behçet Uz Children's Hospital, İzmir, Turkey.
(7)Department of Pediatric Immunology and Allergy, Meram Medical Faculty, 
Necmettin Erbakan University, Konya, Turkey.
(8)Laboratory of Immunology, Department of Medical Biology, Rouiba Hospital, 
Algiers, Algeria.
(9)Department of Pediatrics, Mustapha Pacha University Hospital, University of 
Algiers, Algiers, Algeria.
(10)Department of Medical Immunology, University Hospital Center of Beni 
Messous, University of Algiers, Algiers, Algeria.
(11)Department of Immunology, Pasteur Institute of Algeria/Faculty of Medicine, 
Algiers, Algeria.
(12)Institut Pasteur de Tunis, Université Tunis El Manar, Tunis, Tunisia.
(13)Laboratory of Clinical Immunology, Inflammation and Allergy, Faculty of 
Medicine and Pharmacy of Casablanca, King Hassan II University, Casablanca, 
Morocco.
(14)Department of Pediatrics, Mansoura University Children's Hospital, Faculty 
of Medicine, Mansoura University, Mansoura, Egypt.
(15)Department of Medical Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Faculty of 
Medicine, Mansoura University, Mansoura, Egypt.
(16)Department of Microbiology, Faculty of Medicine, Kuwait University, Kuwait 
City, Kuwait.
(17)Department of Allergy, Al-Rashid Allergy Center, Kuwait University, Kuwait 
City, Kuwait.
(18)Department of Child Health, Sultan Qaboos University Hospital, Muscat, Oman.
(19)Department Immunology Research Laboratory, Azerbaijan Medical University, 
Baku, Azerbaijan.
(20)Allergy and Immunology Division, Pediatrics Department, Sidra Medicine, 
Doha, Qatar.
(21)Allergy and Immunology Section, Department of Medicine, Hamad Medical 
Corporation, Doha, Qatar.
(22)Department of Human Genetics, Gilbert and Rose-Marie Chagoury School of 
Medicine, Lebanese American University, Byblos, Lebanon.
(23)Internal Medicine and Clinical Immunology, Hotel Dieu de France Hospital, 
Saint Joseph University, Beirut, Lebanon.
(24)Jeffrey Modell Foundation (JMF), New York City, NY, USA.
(25)PID Clinical Unit and Laboratory, Department of Dermatology, Semmelweis 
University, Budapest, Hungary.
(26)St. Giles Laboratory of Human Genetics of Infectious Diseases, Rockefeller 
University, New York, NY, USA.
(27)Department of Pediatrics, Faculty of Medicine, Kuwait University, Safat 
13110, PO Box 24923, Kuwait City, Kuwait. wemh@hotmail.com.
(28)Allergy and Clinical Immunology Unit, Pediatric Department, Al-Sabah 
Hospital, Kuwait City, Kuwait. wemh@hotmail.com.
(29)Division of Immunology, Boston Children's Hospital and Harvard Medical 
School, 1 Blackfan Circle, Karp, Bldg, 10th Floor, Boston, MA, 02115, USA. 
raif.geha@childrens.harvard.edu.
(30)Research Center for Immunodeficiencies, Pediatrics Center of Excellence, 
Children's Medical Center, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran. 
hassan.abolhassani@ki.se.
(31)Division of Clinical Immunology, Department of Laboratory Medicine, 
Karolinska Institutet, Karolinska University Hospital, 14186, Huddinge, 
Stockholm, Sweden. hassan.abolhassani@ki.se.

BACKGROUND: Inborn errors of immunity (IEIs) are a heterogeneous group of 
genetic defects of immunity, which cause high rates of morbidity and mortality 
mainly among children due to infectious and non-infectious complications. The 
IEI burden has been critically underestimated in countries from middle- and 
low-income regions and the majority of patients with IEI in these regions lack a 
molecular diagnosis.
METHODS: We analyzed the clinical, immunologic, and genetic data of IEI patients 
from 22 countries in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region. The data 
was collected from national registries and diverse databases such as the Asian 
Pacific Society for Immunodeficiencies (APSID) registry, African Society for 
Immunodeficiencies (ASID) registry, Jeffrey Modell Foundation (JMF) registry, J 
Project centers, and International Consortium on Immune Deficiency (ICID) 
centers.
RESULTS: We identified 17,120 patients with IEI, among which females represented 
39.4%. Parental consanguinity was present in 60.5% of cases and 27.3% of the 
patients were from families with a confirmed previous family history of IEI. The 
median age of patients at the onset of disease was 36 months and the median 
delay in diagnosis was 41 months. The rate of registered IEI patients ranges 
between 0.02 and 7.58 per 100,000 population, and the lowest rates were in 
countries with the highest rates of disability-adjusted life years (DALY) and 
death rates for children. Predominantly antibody deficiencies were the most 
frequent IEI entities diagnosed in 41.2% of the cohort. Among 5871 patients 
genetically evaluated, the diagnostic yield was 83% with the majority (65.2%) 
having autosomal recessive defects. The mortality rate was the highest in 
patients with non-syndromic combined immunodeficiency (51.7%, median age: 
3.5 years) and particularly in patients with mutations in specific genes 
associated with this phenotype (RFXANK, RAG1, and IL2RG).
CONCLUSIONS: This comprehensive registry highlights the importance of a detailed 
investigation of IEI patients in the MENA region. The high yield of genetic 
diagnosis of IEI in this region has important implications for prevention, 
prognosis, treatment, and resource allocation.

© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s10875-021-01053-z
PMCID: PMC8310844
PMID: 34052995 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


448. BJOG. 2021 Oct;128(11):1793-1802. doi: 10.1111/1471-0528.16781. Epub 2021
Jul 5.

Uterine artery embolisation or myomectomy for women with uterine fibroids 
wishing to avoid hysterectomy: a cost-utility analysis of the FEMME trial.

Rana D(1), Wu O(1), Cheed V(2), Middleton LJ(2), Moss J(3), Lumsden MA(3), 
McKinnon W(2), Daniels J(4), Sirkeci F(5), Manyonda I(6), Belli AM(7), McPherson 
K(8); FEMME Trial Collaborative Group.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics and Health Technology Assessment (HEHTA), Institute of 
Health & Wellbeing, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, UK.
(2)Birmingham Clinical Trials Unit, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, UK.
(3)School of Medicine, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, UK.
(4)Nottingham Clinical Trials Unit, University of Nottingham, Nottingham, UK.
(5)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Whipps Cross Hospital, London, UK.
(6)Department of Gynaecology, St George's Hospital and Medical School, London, 
UK.
(7)Department of Radiology, St George's Hospital and Medical School, London, UK.
(8)Department of Primary Care, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.

Comment in
    BJOG. 2021 Oct;128(11):1803.

OBJECTIVES: To assess the cost-effectiveness of uterine artery embolisation 
(UAE) and myomectomy for women with symptomatic uterine fibroids wishing to 
avoid hysterectomy.
DESIGN: Economic evaluation alongside the FEMME randomised controlled trial.
SETTING: 29 UK hospitals.
POPULATION: Premenopausal women who had symptomatic uterine fibroids amenable to 
UAE or myomectomy wishing to avoid hysterectomy. 254 women were randomised to 
UAE (127) and myomectomy (127).
METHODS: A within-trial cost-utility analysis was conducted from the perspective 
of the UK NHS.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) measured using the 
EuroQoL EQ-5D-3L, combined with costs to estimate cost-effectiveness over 2 and 
4 years of follow-up.
RESULTS: Over a 2-year time horizon, UAE was associated with higher mean costs 
(difference £645; 95% CI -1381 to 2580) and lower QALYs (difference -0.09; 95% 
CI -0.11 to -0.04) when compared with myomectomy. Similar results were observed 
over the 4-year time horizon. Thus, UAE was dominated by myomectomy. Results of 
the sensitivity analyses were consistent with the base case results for both 
years. Over 2 years, UAE was associated with higher costs (difference £456; 95% 
CI -1823 to 3164) and lower QALYs (difference -0.06; 95% CI -0.11 to -0.02).
CONCLUSIONS: Myomectomy is a cost-effective option for the treatment of uterine 
fibroids. The differences in costs and QALYs are small. Women should be fully 
informed and have the option to choose between the two procedures.
TWEETABLE ABSTRACT: Fully informed women with uterine fibroids should have a 
choice between uterine artery embolisation or myomectomy.

© 2021 The Authors. BJOG: An International Journal of Obstetrics and Gynaecology 
published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/1471-0528.16781
PMID: 34053154 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


449. Surg Oncol Clin N Am. 2021 Jul;30(3):461-474. doi:
10.1016/j.soc.2021.02.003.

Considerations in the Management of Malignant Bowel Obstruction.

Yeo CT(1), Merchant SJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Surgical Oncology, University of Calgary, Tom Baker Cancer 
Centre, 1331 29 St NW, Calgary, Alberta T2N 4N2, Canada.
(2)Division of General Surgery and Surgical Oncology, Queen's University, Burr 
2, 76 Stuart Street, Kingston, Ontario K7L 2V7, Canada. Electronic address: 
shaila.merchant@kingstonhsc.ca.

Malignant bowel obstruction is a challenging clinical problem encountered in 
patients with advanced abdominal and pelvic malignancies. Although medical 
therapies form the foundation of management, some patients may be suitable 
candidates for surgical and procedural interventions. The literature is composed 
primarily of retrospective single-institution experiences and the results of 
prospective trials are pending. Given the high symptom burden and limited life 
expectancy of these patients, management may be best informed by 
multidisciplinary teams with relevant expertise.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.soc.2021.02.003
PMID: 34053662 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure The authors have nothing to disclose.


450. J Cyst Fibros. 2022 Jan;21(1):111-114. doi: 10.1016/j.jcf.2021.05.002. Epub
