that may be associated with an increased risk of late ipsilateral stroke (e.g. 
silent embolic infarcts on brain computed tomography/magnetic resonance imaging, 
progression in the severity of ACS, a history of contralateral transient 
ischemic attack/stroke, microemboli detection on transcranial Doppler, etc.), 
provided documented perioperative stroke/death rates are <3% and the patient's 
life expectancy is >5 years. Besides these clinical/imaging characteristics, 
there are additional individual, ethnic/racial or social factors that should 
probably be evaluated in the decision process regarding the optimal management 
of these patients, such as individual patient needs/patient choice, patient 
compliance with best medical treatment, patient sex, culture, race/ethnicity, 
age and comorbidities, as well as improvements in imaging/operative 
techniques/outcomes. The present multispecialty position paper will present the 
rationale why the management of patients with ACS may need to be individualized.

DOI: 10.23736/S0392-9590.21.04751-9
PMID: 34313413 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


231. JAMA Netw Open. 2021 Jul 1;4(7):e2114501. doi: 
10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2021.14501.

Cost-effectiveness of Dapagliflozin for the Treatment of Heart Failure With 
Reduced Ejection Fraction.

Isaza N(1)(2), Calvachi P(2), Raber I(1)(2)(3), Liu CL(4)(5), Bellows BK(6), 
Hernandez I(7), Shen C(2)(4), Gavin MC(2)(3), Garan AR(2)(3), Kazi DS(2)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, 
Boston, Massachusetts.
(2)Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts.
(3)Division of Cardiology, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston, 
Massachusetts.
(4)Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Center for Outcomes Research in Cardiology, 
Boston, Massachusetts.
(5)Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts.
(6)Division of General Medicine, Columbia University Department of Medicine, New 
York City, New York.
(7)School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Science, University of California, San 
Diego.

IMPORTANCE: Heart failure with reduced ejection fraction produces substantial 
morbidity, mortality, and health care costs. Dapagliflozin is the first 
sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 inhibitor approved for the treatment of heart 
failure with reduced ejection fraction.
OBJECTIVE: To examine the cost-effectiveness of adding dapagliflozin to 
guideline-directed medical therapy for heart failure with reduced ejection 
fraction in patients with or without diabetes.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: This economic evaluation developed and used a 
Markov cohort model that compared dapagliflozin and guideline-directed medical 
therapy with guideline-directed medical therapy alone in a hypothetical cohort 
of US adults with similar clinical characteristics as participants of the 
Dapagliflozin in Patients with Heart Failure and Reduced Ejection Fraction 
(DAPA-HF) trial. Dapagliflozin was assumed to cost $4192 annually. Nonparametric 
modeling was used to estimate long-term survival. Deterministic and 
probabilistic sensitivity analyses examined the impact of parameter uncertainty. 
Data were analyzed between September 2019 and January 2021.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Lifetime incremental cost-effectiveness ratio in 
2020 US dollars per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained.
RESULTS: The simulated cohort had a starting age of 66 years, and 41.8% had 
diabetes at baseline. Median (interquartile range) survival in the 
guideline-directed medical therapy arm was 6.8 (3.5-11.3) years. Dapagliflozin 
was projected to add 0.63 (95% uncertainty interval [UI], 0.25-1.15) QALYs at an 
incremental lifetime cost of $42 800 (95% UI, $37 100-$50 300), for an 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of $68 300 per QALY gained (95% UI, 
$54 600-$117 600 per QALY gained; cost-effective in 94% of probabilistic 
simulations at a threshold of $100 000 per QALY gained). Findings were similar 
in individuals with or without diabetes but were sensitive to drug cost.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: In this study, adding dapagliflozin to 
guideline-directed medical therapy was projected to improve long-term clinical 
outcomes in patients with heart failure with reduced ejection fraction and be 
cost-effective at current US prices. Scalable strategies for improving uptake of 
dapagliflozin may improve long-term outcomes in patients with heart failure with 
reduced ejection fraction.

DOI: 10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2021.14501
PMCID: PMC8317009
PMID: 34313742 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: Dr Hernandez 
reported receiving consulting fees from Bristol Myers Squibb outside of the 
submitted work. Dr Bellows reported receiving grant funding from the National 
Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (grant No. K01-HL140170). No other disclosures 
were reported.


232. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 2021 Nov 3;103(21):1970-1976. doi:
10.2106/JBJS.20.01345.

Cost Analysis of Volar Plate Fixation Versus Plaster Cast Immobilization for 
Intra-Articular Distal Radial Fractures.

Selles CA(1)(2), Mulders MAM(1), van Dieren S(1), Goslings JC(3), Schep NWL(2); 
VIPAR Collaborators.

Author information:
(1)Trauma Unit, Department of Surgery, Amsterdam UMC, Location AMC, Amsterdam, 
the Netherlands.
(2)Department of Trauma and Hand Surgery, Maasstad Hospital, Rotterdam, the 
Netherlands.
(3)Department of Surgery, OLVG, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.

Comment in
    J Bone Joint Surg Am. 2021 Nov 3;103(21):2062.

BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to compare the cost-effectiveness and 
cost-utility between plaster cast immobilization and volar plate fixation for 
acceptably reduced intra-articular distal radial fractures.
METHODS: A cost-effectiveness analysis was conducted as part of a randomized 
controlled trial comparing operative (volar plate fixation) with nonoperative 
(plaster cast immobilization) treatment in patients between 18 and 75 years old 
with an acceptably reduced intra-articular distal radial fracture. Health-care 
utilization and use of resources per patient were documented prospectively and 
included direct medical costs, direct non-medical costs, and indirect costs. All 
analyses were performed according to the intention-to-treat principle.
RESULTS: The mean total cost per patient was $291 (95% bias-corrected and 
accelerated confidence interval [bcaCI] = -$1,286 to $1,572) higher in the 
operative group compared with the nonoperative group. The mean total number of 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) gained at 12 months was significantly higher 
in the operative group than in the nonoperative group (mean difference = 0.15; 
95% bcaCI = 0.056 to 0.243). The difference in the cost per QALY (incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio [ICER]) was $2,008 (95% bcaCI = -$9,608 to $18,222) for 
the operative group compared with the nonoperative group, which means that 
operative treatment is more effective but also more expensive. Subgroup analysis 
including only patients with a paid job showed that the ICER was -$3,500 per 
QALY for the operative group with a paid job compared with the nonoperative 
group with a paid job, meaning that operative treatment is more effective and 
less expensive for patients with a paid job.
CONCLUSIONS: The difference in QALYs gained for the operatively treated group 
was equivalent to an additional 55 days of perfect health per year. In adult 
patients with an acceptably reduced intra-articular distal radial fracture, 
operative treatment is a cost-effective intervention, especially in patients 
with paid employment. Operative treatment is slightly more expensive than 
nonoperative treatment but provides better functional results and a better 
quality of life.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Economic and Decision Analysis Level I. See Instructions for 
Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence.

Copyright © 2021 by The Journal of Bone and Joint Surgery, Incorporated.

DOI: 10.2106/JBJS.20.01345
PMID: 34314400 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure: The Disclosure of Potential 
Conflicts of Interest forms are provided with the online version of the article 
(http://links.lww.com/JBJS/G640).


233. PLoS One. 2021 Jul 27;16(7):e0254925. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0254925. 
eCollection 2021.

The Mean Unfulfilled Lifespan (MUL): A new indicator of the impact of mortality 
shocks on the individual lifespan, with application to mortality reversals 
induced by COVID-19.

Heuveline P(1).

Author information:
(1)California Center for Population Research (CCPR), University of California, 
Los Angeles (UCLA), Los Angeles, CA, United States of America.

Update of
    medRxiv. 2021 Feb 21;:

Declines in period life expectancy at birth (PLEB) provide seemingly intuitive 
indicators of the impact of a cause of death on the individual lifespan. Derived 
under the assumption that future mortality conditions will remain indefinitely 
those observed during a reference period, however, their intuitive 
interpretation becomes problematic when period conditions reflect a temporary 
mortality "shock", resulting from a natural disaster or the diffusion of a new 
epidemic in the population for instance. Rather than to make assumptions about 
future mortality, I propose measuring the difference between a period average 
age at death and the average expected age at death of the same individuals 
(death cohort): the Mean Unfulfilled Lifespan (MUL). For fine-grained tracking 
of the mortality impact of an epidemic, I also provide an empirical shortcut to 
MUL estimation for small areas or short periods. For illustration, quarterly MUL 
values in 2020 are derived from estimates of COVID-19 deaths that might 
substantially underestimate overall mortality change in affected populations. 
These results nonetheless illustrate how MUL tracks the mortality impact of the 
pandemic in several national and sub-national populations. Using a seven-day 
rolling window, the empirical shortcut suggests MUL peaked at 6.43 years in 
Lombardy, 8.91 years in New Jersey, and 6.24 years in Mexico City for instance. 
Sensitivity analyses are presented, but in the case of COVID-19, the main 
uncertainty remains the potential gap between reported COVID-19 deaths and 
actual increases in the number of deaths induced by the pandemic in some of the 
most affected countries. Using actual number of deaths rather than reported 
COVID-19 deaths may increase seven-day MUL from 6.24 to 8.96 years in Mexico 
City and from 2.67 to 5.49 years in Lima for instance. In Guayas (Ecuador), MUL 
is estimated to have reached 12.7 years for the entire month of April 2020.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0254925
PMCID: PMC8315782
PMID: 34314459 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


234. J Mov Disord. 2021 Sep;14(3):214-220. doi: 10.14802/jmd.21029. Epub 2021 Jul
29.

Increased Mortality in Young-Onset Parkinson's Disease.

Hustad E(1), Myklebust TÅ(2), Gulati S(1)(3), Aasly JO(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuromedicine and Movement Science (INB), NTNU, Faculty of 
Medicine and Health Sciences, Trondheim, Norway.
(2)Department of Research and Innovation, More and Romsdal Hospital Trust, 
Ålesund, Norway.
(3)Department of Neurosurgery, St. Olavs Hospital, Trondheim, Norway.
(4)Department of Neurology, St. Olavs Hospital, Trondheim, Norway.

OBJECTIVE: Few studies have followed Parkinson's disease (PD) patients from the 
time of diagnosis to the date of death. This study compared mortality in the 
Trondheim PD cohort to the general population, investigated causes of death and 
analyzed the associations between mortality and age at disease onset (AAO) and 
cognitive decline defined as Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) score below 
26.
METHODS: The cohort was followed longitudinally from 1997. By the end of January 
2020, 587 patients had died. Comparisons to the Norwegian population were 
performed by calculating standardized mortality ratios (SMRs). Survival curves 
were estimated using the standard Kaplan-Meier estimator, and multivariable Cox 
proportional hazard models were estimated to investigate associations.
RESULTS: SMR was 2.28 [95% confidence interval (CI): 2.13-2.44] for the whole 
cohort. For participants with AAO 20-39 years, the SMR was 5.55 (95% CI: 
3.38-8.61). Median survival was 15 years (95% CI: 14.2-15.5) for the whole 
cohort. Early-onset PD (EOPD) patients (AAO < 50 years) had the longest median 
survival time. For all groups, there was a significant shortening in median 
survival time and an almost 3-fold higher age- and sex-adjusted hazard ratio for 
death when the MoCA score decreased below 26.
CONCLUSION: PD patients with an AAO before 40 years had a more than fivefold 
higher mortality rate compared to a similar general population. EOPD patients 
had the longest median survival; however, their life expectancy was reduced to a 
greater degree than that of late-onset PD patients. Cognitive impairment was 
strongly associated with mortality in PD.

DOI: 10.14802/jmd.21029
PMCID: PMC8490197
PMID: 34315208

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest The authors have no 
financial conflicts of interest.


235. Subst Use Misuse. 2021;56(12):1797-1806. doi: 10.1080/10826084.2021.1954025.
 Epub 2021 Jul 27.

Racial/Ethnic Differences in 30-Year Trajectories of Cannabis Use among Males.

Lee H(1), Augustyn MB(2), Henry KL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Colorado State University, Fort Collins, Colorado, 
USA.
(2)Department of Criminal Justice, The University of Texas at San Antonio, San 
Antonio, Texas, USA.

Background: Given that cannabis is the most commonly used illicit substance in 
the US, continuous research on patterns of cannabis use over the life course can 
help to ensure progress towards improving public health and reducing health 
inequalities across race/ethnicity. Thus, we examine racial/ethnic differences 
in cannabis use trajectories among males across two overlapping stages of the 
life course. Methods: We use data from two companion studies, the Rochester 
Youth Development Study (RYDS - a longitudinal cohort study that followed 
participants from adolescence into adulthood), and its intergenerational 
extension - the Rochester Intergenerational Study. For Life Stage 1, we consider 
cannabis use during the transition from adolescence to adulthood (spanning ages 
13 to 33; 439 Black, 128 White, and 125 Hispanic males). Among these males who 
became fathers, we consider cannabis use during fatherhood (Life Stage 2 
-spanning the period of time when their firstborn child was between the ages of 
7 and 17-217 Black, 55 White, and 56 Hispanic males). Ordinal generalized 
estimating equations were specified to examine cannabis use trajectories during 
both stages of the males' lives. Results: No significant differences in cannabis 
use as a function of racial/ethnic group were found during the transition from 
adolescence to adulthood (Life Stage 1). All groups had a peak of cannabis use 
in the early to mid-20's followed by a decline in use. During fatherhood (Life 
Stage 2), cannabis use was stable for all groups, but Black fathers reported 
more frequent cannabis use on average than Hispanic fathers. Conclusions: The 
increase in cannabis use well past adolescence for all groups suggests the 
potential importance of intervention initiatives during the transition to 
adulthood. The more frequent use of cannabis by Black fathers warrants further 
study given the impact parental cannabis use can have on offspring.

DOI: 10.1080/10826084.2021.1954025
PMCID: PMC8596976
PMID: 34315327 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interest The authors declare that 
they have no conflict of interest. The authors alone are responsible for the 
content and writing of the article.


236. BMC Geriatr. 2021 Jul 27;21(1):442. doi: 10.1186/s12877-021-02379-4.

Correlation between plasma ZAG and adiponectin in older adults: gender 
modification and frailty specificity.

Lee YP(1)(2), Chang CH(3), Chen CY(2)(4), Wen CJ(2)(4)(5), Huang HL(2)(4), Peng 
JK(2)(4), Wang YT(6), Chen CY(2)(4), Tsai JS(7)(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Division of Family Medicine, Taipei Hospital, Ministry of Health and Welfare, 
New Taipei City, Taiwan.
(2)Department of Family Medicine, National Taiwan University Hospital, 7 
Chung-Shan South Road, Taipei, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Medical Research, National Taiwan University Hospital, Taipei, 
Taiwan.
(4)Department of Family Medicine, College of Medicine, National Taiwan 
University, Taipei, Taiwan.
(5)Department of Geriatrics and Gerontology, National Taiwan University 
Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan.
(6)Clinical Trial Center, Department of Medical Research, National Taiwan 
University Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan.
(7)Department of Family Medicine, National Taiwan University Hospital, 7 
Chung-Shan South Road, Taipei, Taiwan. jawshiun@ntu.edu.tw.
(8)Department of Family Medicine, College of Medicine, National Taiwan 
University, Taipei, Taiwan. jawshiun@ntu.edu.tw.
(9)Center for Complementary and Integrated Medicine, National Taiwan University 
Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan. jawshiun@ntu.edu.tw.

BACKGROUND: Adiponectin and zinc alpha2-glycoprotein (ZAG) are associated with 
frailty. This study aims to further examine the association of adiponectin with 
ZAG.
METHODS: Outpatients aged 65 years or older with chronic disease followed up in 
a hospital-based program were recruited for a comprehensive geriatric 
assessment. We excluded outpatients who were bedridden, residing in a nursing 
home, with expected life expectancy less than 6 months, or with severe hearing 
or communication impairment. Plasma ZAG and adiponectin levels were measured. 
Association between plasma ZAG and adiponectin levels was analyzed by univariate 
and multivariable linear regression analyses.
RESULTS: A total of 189 older adults were enrolled (91 men and 98 women, mean 
age: 77.2 ± 6.1 years). Log-transformed plasma ZAG level was 1.82 ± 0.11 μg/mL, 
and it was significantly higher in men than that in women (1.85 ± 0.12 vs 
1.79 ± 0.10 μg/mL, P = .0006). Log-transformed plasma adiponectin level was 
1.00 ± 0.26 μg/mL, and there was no significant gender difference (P = .195). 
Overall, plasma ZAG level positively correlated with plasma adiponectin level in 
the multivariable linear regression analysis (P = .0085). The gender-specific 
significance, however, was less clear: this relationship was significant in men 
(P = .0049) but not in women (P = .2072). To be more specific by frailty 
phenotype components, plasma adiponectin was positively correlated with weight 
loss (P = .0454) and weakness (P = .0451).
CONCLUSIONS: Both of ZAG and adiponectin may be potential frailty biomarkers. 
Plasma ZAG is an independent factor of plasma adiponectin, especially in older 
male adults.

© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12877-021-02379-4
PMCID: PMC8314466
PMID: 34315434 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


237. BMJ. 2021 Jul 27;374:n1886. doi: 10.1136/bmj.n1886.

Life expectancy: White people in England and Wales had worst outcomes before 
pandemic, data show.

Iacobucci G(1).

Author information:
(1)The BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.n1886
PMID: 34315714


238. Prev Nutr Food Sci. 2021 Jun 30;26(2):209-218. doi:
10.3746/pnf.2021.26.2.209.

Inhibition of Melanosis in Whiteleg Shrimp (Litopenaeus vannamei) during 
Refrigerated Storage Using Extracts of Different Avocado (Persea americana 
Mill.) By-Products.

Phan DTA(1), Bui TH(1), Doan TQT(1), Nguyen NV(2), Ly TH(3).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Chemical and Food Technology, HCMC University of Technology and 
Education, Ho Chi Minh 70000, Viet Nam.
(2)Research Center for Aquafeed Nutrition and Fishery Post-Harvest Technology 
(APOTEC), Ho Chi Minh 70000, Viet Nam.
(3)Research Center of Ginseng and Medicinal Materials, National Institute of 
Medicinal Materials, Ho Chi Minh 70000, Viet Nam.

Melanosis in shrimp usually leads to reduction in its shelf life and quality, 
which causes a significant loss in economic value of shrimp products. This study 
reports potential applications of nine ethanolic extracts of by-products, i.e., 
peel and/or seed from three Vietnamese avocado varieties as effective inhibitors 
of melanosis in whiteleg shrimp. Six out of nine shrimp samples treated with the 
prepared extracts (0.025%, w/v) reduced melanosis and lipid oxidation more 
significantly as compared to those treated with sodium metabisulfite (SMS, 
1.25%, w/v) and control groups (treated with water) during 8-day storage at 4°C 
(P<0.05). These six extracts had mean gray values ranging from 47.0±0.7 to 
57.3±0.4% were lower than those treated with SMS (mean gray of 39.8±0.4%). The 
inhibition of melanosis and lipid oxidation in shrimp for these extracts could 
be attributed to their high content of polyphenols [total phenolic content (TPC) 
from 44.5±1.1 to 144.7±1.9 mg gallic acid equivalents/g dried weight] and strong 
antioxidant activities [including 2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) radical 
scavenging, ferric reducing antioxidant power (FRAP), and tyrosinase enzyme 
inhibition]. Pearson statistical analysis showed strong correlation for 
melanosis inhibition to TPC and DPPH scavenging (r>0.80) followed by tyrosinase 
inhibition and FRAP (r>0.50). The findings obtained from this study suggest 
potential utilization of avocado by-product extracts as safe and cheap natural 
alternatives to traditional sulfites for anti-melanosis and shelf life extension 
of whiteleg shrimp.

Copyright © 2021 by The Korean Society of Food Science and Nutrition. All rights 
Reserved.

DOI: 10.3746/pnf.2021.26.2.209
PMCID: PMC8276702
PMID: 34316486

Conflict of interest statement: AUTHOR DISCLOSURE STATEMENT The authors declare 
no conflict of interest.


239. Innov Aging. 2021 Jun 14;5(3):igab020. doi: 10.1093/geroni/igab020.
eCollection  2021.

Patient-Caregiver Treatment Preference Discordance and Its Association With 
Caregiving Burden and Esteem.

Ozdemir S(1)(2), Ng S(1)(2), Malhotra C(1)(2), Teo I(1)(3), Finkelstein 
EA(1)(2); COMPASS Study Group.

Collaborators: Singh R, Dent RA, Yeo WL, Cheung YB, Malhotra R, Kanesvaran R, 
Yee ACP, Chan N, Wu HY, Chin SM, Allyn HYM, Yang GM, Neo PSH, Nadkarni NV, 
Harding R.

Author information:
(1)Lien Centre for Palliative Care, Duke-NUS Medical School, Singapore.
(2)Signature Programme in Health Services and System Research, Duke-NUS Medical 
School, Singapore.
(3)National Cancer Centre Singapore, Singapore.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Many patient-caregiver dyads report conflicting 
treatment decisions regarding preferences for life extension treatments and 
symptom management. It is possible that this discordance will lead to negative 
psychological outcomes including lowered caregiving esteem and increased 
caregiver burden. However, the relationships between treatment discordance among 
dyads and caregiver psychological outcomes are not well studied among advanced 
cancer patients-a gap this study aims to fill.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: Outcome variables included caregiver burden and 
caregiving esteem, measured via a modified 4-domain Caregiver Reaction 
Assessment Scale. The main independent variable was patient-caregiver treatment 
preference discordance, examined using questions adapted from an existing 
protocol. Analyses were conducted using multivariable regressions.
RESULTS: A convenience sample of 285 patient-caregiver dyads were recruited from 
outpatient clinics at 2 tertiary hospitals in Singapore. The majority (60%) of 
patient-caregiver dyads reported discordant treatment preferences. Discordance 
in this study arose because caregivers wanted a balance between life extension 
and symptom management while patients preferred life-extending treatment. In 
multivariable analyses, discordance predicted caregiver burden arising from 
impact on caregiver schedule and health (β = 0.16, p = .07) and lack of family 
support (β = 0.13, p = .04).
DISCUSSION AND IMPLICATIONS: Theoretically, this study provided a more nuanced 
understanding of how dyad discordance may worsen the burdens felt by caregivers, 
and which aspects of their lives (i.e., burden due to impact of caregiver 
schedule and health and lack of family support) are most affected. Our findings 
can aid in establishing therapeutic interventions targeted toward improving 
communication skills and encouraging end-of-life discussions among patients, 
caregivers, and their health care providers. The importance of establishing and 
improving therapy programs specifically targeted toward caregivers was also 
underlined.

© The Author(s) 2021. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The 
Gerontological Society of America.

DOI: 10.1093/geroni/igab020
PMCID: PMC8306724
PMID: 34316519


240. Pharmacoeconomics. 2021 Oct;39(10):1109-1121. doi:
10.1007/s40273-021-01066-x.  Epub 2021 Jul 28.

A Review of Utility Measurement Methods Used in Pharmacoeconomic Submissions to 
HIRA in South Korea: Methodological Consistency and Areas for Improvement.

Hong J(1), Bae EY(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Healthcare Management, College of Social Science, Gachon 
University, Seongnam, 13120, South Korea. jihyung.hong.kr@gmail.com.
(2)College of Pharmacy, Gyeongsang National University, Jinju, South Korea.

Pharmacoeconomic (PE) guidelines, first published in 2006 and later updated in 
2011, were developed to guide the preparation and submission of PE data to the 
Health Insurance Review and Assessment Service (HIRA) for drug reimbursement 
decision making in South Korea. This study, which was conducted as part of a 
project for revision of the PE guideline, reviewed utility values used in the PE 
submissions processed at HIRA during 2014-2018 to identify aspects of the 
current guidelines that may need to be revisited. A total of 50 PE submissions 
were processed at HIRA over the 5 years. Of these, 47 submissions that used 
quality-adjusted life-years as an outcome measure were included in this review. 
Data were extracted from full copies of the manufacturer's initial submissions 
and committee documents provided by HIRA. Of the 47 submissions, nearly half 
(n = 23, 48.9%) used published sources to obtain health state utility values, 
followed by direct methods using time trade-off (n = 7) or standard gamble 
(n = 2) and indirect methods with patient-level data using the EQ-5D-3L (n = 4) 
or the EQ-5D-5L (n = 2). Mapping, using the EQ-5D-3L as a target measure, was 
also adopted in six submissions, although it was somewhat unfavourably described 
in the guideline. Notably, 52.2% of the submissions with published sources took 
utility values from different sources for different health states defined in a 
single model. In addition, details of utility measurement methods or mapping 
functions taken from published sources were relatively poorly reported. 
Moreover, the preferences of the Korean general public, preferred by the 
guideline, were rarely reflected in the utility values used in submissions 
relying on published sources (95.7% for foreign values only/mixed) and mapping 
(66.7%). While most submissions with direct and indirect methods used domestic 
preference values, the former was occasionally criticised by assessment 
committees because of health state descriptions. This review highlights a 
considerable amount of inconsistency in the measurement of utility values used 
in the PE submissions during 2014-2018, indicating a strong need for 
methodological standardisation.

© 2021. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland 
AG.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-021-01066-x
PMID: 34318442 [Indexed for MEDLINE]241. Clin Transplant. 2021 Nov;35(11):e14444. doi: 10.1111/ctr.14444. Epub 2021
Aug  4.

Return to work after deceased donor kidney transplant under the kidney 
allocation system.

Wherry KS(1), Dowd BE(1), Kuntz KM(1), Berg BP(1), McGovern PM(2), Pruett TL(3).

Author information:
(1)Division of Health Policy and Management, School of Public Health, University 
of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota, USA.
(2)Division of Environmental Health Sciences, School of Public Health, 
University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota, USA.
(3)Division of Transplantation, Department of Surgery, University of Minnesota, 
Minneapolis, Minnesota, USA.

BACKGROUND: The Kidney Allocation System (KAS) includes a scoring system to 
match transplant candidate life expectancy with expected longevity of the donor 
kidney, and a backdating policy that gives waitlist time credit to patients 
waitlisted after starting dialysis treatment (post-dialysis). We estimated the 
effect of the KAS on employment among patient subgroups targeted by the policy.
METHODS: We used a sample selection model to compare employment after transplant 
before and after KAS implementation among patients on the kidney-only transplant 
waitlist between December 4, 2011 and December 31, 2017.
RESULTS: Post-dialysis transplant recipients aged 18-49 were significantly more 
likely to be employed 1-year post transplant in the post-KAS era compared to the 
pre-KAS era. Transplant recipients aged 35-64 with no dialysis treatment were 
significantly less likely to be employed 1 year after transplant in the post-KAS 
era compared to the pre-KAS era.
CONCLUSIONS: This study provides the first assessment of employment after DDKT 
under the KAS and provides important information about both the methods used to 
measure employment after transplant and the outcome under the KAS. Changes in 
employment after DDKT among various patient subgroups have important 
implications for assessing long-term patient and societal effects of the KAS and 
organ allocation policy.

© 2021 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ctr.14444
PMID: 34318522 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


242. Health Technol Assess. 2021 Jul;25(47):1-126. doi: 10.3310/hta25470.

Venous access devices for the delivery of long-term chemotherapy: the CAVA 
three-arm RCT.

Wu O(1), McCartney E(2), Heggie R(1), Germeni E(1), Paul J(2), Soulis E(2), 
Dillon S(2), Ryan C(3), Sim M(1), Dixon-Hughes J(2), Agarwal R(4), Bodenham 
A(5), Menne T(6), Jones B(7), Moss J(8).

Author information:
(1)Health Economics and Health Technology Assessment (HEHTA), Institute of 
Health and Wellbeing, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, UK.
(2)Cancer Research UK Glasgow Clinical Trials Unit, Institute of Cancer 
Sciences, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, UK.
(3)School of Social Sciences, University of Dundee, Dundee, UK.
(4)Oncology, Northampton General Hospital, Northampton, UK.
(5)Intensive Care, Leeds Teaching Hospitals, Leeds, UK.
(6)Haematology, Newcastle Freeman Hospital, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.
(7)Institute of Infection, Immunity and Inflammation, University of Glasgow, 
Glasgow, UK.
(8)Institute of Cardiovascular and Medical Sciences, University of Glasgow, 
Glasgow, UK.

BACKGROUND: Venous access devices are used for patients receiving long-term 
chemotherapy. These include centrally inserted tunnelled catheters or 
Hickman-type devices (Hickman), peripherally inserted central catheters (PICCs) 
and centrally inserted totally implantable venous access devices (PORTs).
OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the clinical effectiveness, safety, cost-effectiveness 
and acceptability of these devices for the central delivery of chemotherapy.
DESIGN: An open, multicentre, randomised controlled trial to inform three 
comparisons: (1) peripherally inserted central catheters versus Hickman, (2) 
PORTs versus Hickman and (3) PORTs versus peripherally inserted central 
catheters. Pre-trial and post-trial qualitative research and economic evaluation 
were also conducted.
SETTING: This took place in 18 UK oncology centres.
PARTICIPANTS: Adult patients (aged ≥ 18 years) receiving chemotherapy (≥ 12 
weeks) for either a solid or a haematological malignancy were randomised via 
minimisation.
INTERVENTIONS: Hickman, peripherally inserted central catheters and PORTs.
PRIMARY OUTCOME: A composite of infection (laboratory confirmed, suspected 
catheter related and exit site infection), mechanical failure, venous 
thrombosis, pulmonary embolism, inability to aspirate blood and other 
complications in the intention-to-treat population.
RESULTS: Overall, 1061 participants were recruited to inform three comparisons. 
First, for the comparison of peripherally inserted central catheters (n = 212) 
with Hickman (n = 212), it could not be concluded that peripherally inserted 
central catheters were significantly non-inferior to Hickman in terms of 
complication rate (odds ratio 1.15, 95% confidence interval 0.78 to 1.71). The 
use of peripherally inserted central catheters compared with Hickman was 
associated with a substantially lower cost (-£1553) and a small decrement in 
quality-adjusted life-years gained (-0.009). Second, for the comparison of PORTs 
(n = 253) with Hickman (n = 303), PORTs were found to be statistically 
significantly superior to Hickman in terms of complication rate (odds ratio 
0.54, 95% confidence interval 0.37 to 0.77). PORTs were found to dominate 
Hickman with lower costs (-£45) and greater quality-adjusted life-years gained 
(0.004). This was alongside a lower complications rate (difference of 14%); the 
incremental cost per complication averted was £1.36. Third, for the comparison 
of PORTs (n = 147) with peripherally inserted central catheters (n = 199), PORTs 
were found to be statistically significantly superior to peripherally inserted 
central catheters in terms of complication rate (odds ratio 0.52, 95% confidence 
interval 0.33 to 0.83). PORTs were associated with an incremental cost of £2706 
when compared with peripherally inserted central catheters and a decrement in 
quality-adjusted life-years gained (-0.018) PORTs are dominated by peripherally 
inserted central catheters: alongside a lower complications rate (difference of 
15%), the incremental cost per complication averted was £104. The qualitative 
work showed that attitudes towards all three devices were positive, with 
patients viewing their central venous access device as part of their treatment 
and recovery. PORTs were perceived to offer unique psychological benefits, 
including a greater sense of freedom and less intrusion in the context of 
personal relationships. The main limitation was the lack of adequate power (54%) 
in the non-inferiority comparison between peripherally inserted central 
catheters and Hickman.
CONCLUSIONS: In the delivery of long-term chemotherapy, peripherally inserted 
central catheters should be considered a cost-effective option when compared 
with Hickman. There were significant clinical benefits when comparing PORTs with 
Hickman and with peripherally inserted central catheters. The health economic 
benefits were less clear from the perspective of incremental cost per 
quality-adjusted life-years gained. However, dependent on the willingness to 
pay, PORTs may be considered to be cost-effective from the perspective of 
complications averted.
FUTURE WORK: The deliverability of a PORTs service merits further study to 
understand the barriers to and methods of improving the service.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: This trial is registered as ISRCTN44504648.
FUNDING: This project was funded by the National Institute for Health Research 
(NHIR) Health Technology Assessment programme and will be published in full in 
Health Technology Assessment; Vol. 25, No. 47. See the NIHR Journals Library 
website for further project information.

Plain Language Summary: For patients who need long-term chemotherapy delivered 
through a vein, there are currently three options: (1) a Hickman-type device, 
which is a flexible tube (central line) inserted underneath the skin on the 
chest into a large vein; (2) a peripherally inserted central catheter, which is 
a long line tube inserted into a vein in the arm and passed through a large vein 
in the chest; and (3) a totally implantable device, which is a small chamber 
(accessed externally by a needle) that sits underneath the skin, usually in the 
chest, and goes into a large vein. The Cancer And Venous Access (CAVA) trial 
compared these devices in > 1000 patients and looked at complications, quality 
of life, acceptability and value for money. We found that totally implantable 
devices halved the risk of complications compared with the other two options 
(which had similar complication rates to each other). We found that patients’ 
quality of life was similar for all three devices, although a quality-of-life 
measure specific to these devices showed some emotional and psychological 
benefits in favour of totally implantable devices. All three devices work, 
although the totally implantable devices are associated with fewer complications 
and are less intrusive for patients. In the CAVA trial, we found that totally 
implantable devices are the most costly device to use, followed by the 
Hickman-type device, with the peripherally inserted central device being the 
cheapest. This is partly because of the tendency for totally implantable devices 
to remain in patients for a longer period of time than the other two options. 
The costs could potentially be reduced by training nurse-led teams to insert 
totally implantable devices, as already happens with the other two devices. 
Totally implantable devices can be considered value for money depending on how 
people value avoiding complications and the quality-of-life benefits for 
patients.

DOI: 10.3310/hta25470
PMID: 34318743 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


243. JAMA Cardiol. 2021 Nov 1;6(11):1298-1305. doi: 10.1001/jamacardio.2021.2632.

Extrapolating Long-term Event-Free and Overall Survival With Dapagliflozin in 
Patients With Heart Failure and Reduced Ejection Fraction: An Exploratory 
Analysis of a Phase 3 Randomized Clinical Trial.

Docherty KF(1), Jhund PS(1), Claggett B(2), Ferreira JP(1)(3), Bengtsson O(4), 
Inzucchi SE(5), Køber L(6), Kosiborod MN(7)(8), Langkilde AM(4), Martinez FA(9), 
Ponikowski P(10), Sabatine MS(11), Sjöstrand M(4), Solomon SD(2), McMurray 
JJV(1); DAPA-HF Investigators and Committees.

Collaborators: McMurray JJV, DeMets DL, Inzucchi SE, Køber L, Kosiborod MN, 
Langkilde AM, Martinez FA, Ponikowski P, Sabatine MS, Sjöstrand M, Solomon SD, 
Diez M, Nicolau JC, Katova T, Howlett J, O'Meara E, Verma S, Ge J, Belohlavek J, 
Schou M, Böhm M, Merkely B, Chopra V, Kitakaze M, De Boer R, Drożdż J, 
Tereshchenko S, Dukát A, Ljungman C, Chiang CE, Petrie M, Anand I, Desai A, 
Nguyễn Vinh P, Sassone S, Aizenberg D, Talavera M, Mercau G, Martinez D, Albisu 
J, Hershson A, García Durán R, Hominal M, Cluigt N, Colombo Berra F, Perna E, 
Ahuad Guerrero R, García Brasca D, Zaidman C, Majul C, Taborda J, Luquez H, Sala 
J, Sosa Liprandi A, Cursack G, Montaña O, Fernandez A, Najenson M, Nani S, 
Caruso G, Fairman E, Pereiro Gonzalez S, Maia L, Pereira A, Rossi P, Precoma D, 
Neuenschwander F, Reis G, Guimaraes F, Saraiva J, Arantes F, Hernandes M, Borges 
J, Paolino B, Vasconcellos E, Manenti E, Pimentel P, Leaes P, Rassi S, Dalcoquio 
T, Katova T, Avramov D, Spasova N, Raev D, Chompalova B, Milanova M, Tokmakova 
M, Runev N, Mihov A, Gogov A, Dincheva A, Iliev N, Kolomanov B, Ivanova Y, 
Ilieva K, Karageorgiev D, Efremov I, Botushanov N, Vladeva S, Constance C, Vizel 
S, Pandey A, Phaneuf D, Mehta S, Rupka D, Pesant Y, Poirier P, Chehayeb R, 
Babapulle M, O'Meara E, Howlett J, Yao L, Mckelvie R, Verma S, Hartleib M, 
Vijayaraghavan R, Vyselaar J, Azzari F, Cha J, Nasser-Sharif F, Maung TZ, 
Mansour S, Khaykin Y, Lee R, Fong P, Jiang H, Li X, Fu L, Li Y, Wang D, Zhao Q, 
Dong Y, Zhou Y, Lin X, Dong J, Zhang X, Zheng Z, Huang W, Gu Y, Liu J, Guo X, Wu 
L, Tang Q, Peng D, Dong W, Liang Y, Li Z, Wang Z, Han B, Wu C, Belohlavek J, 
Slaby J, Spinar J, Hajek P, Busak L, Carda J, Spinarova L, Malek I, Skopek J, 
Kuchar R, Krcova E, Mayer O Jr, Kucera D, Schou M, Køber L, Egstrup K, Hove J, 
Gislason G, Videbæk L, Böhm M, Nischik R, Toursarkissian N, Appel K, Schmidt E, 
Weigmann I, Kellerer M, Al-Zoebi A, Stephan U, Wilke A, Genth-Zotz S, Simonis G, 
Tschöpe D, Costard-Jäckle A, Merkely B, Andrássy P, Noori E, Járai Z, Poór F, 
Király C, Czigány A, Nagy L, Motyovszki Á, Masszi G, Mehta V, Chopra V, Naik A, 
Gadkari M, Sawant R, Mahapekar M, Karna S, Deshpande M, Bhargava V, Kothiwale V, 
Menon J, Sinha D, Sinha S, Kokane H, Udgire P, Sandhu M, Suzuki M, Nishino M, 
Kiyosue A, Sumii K, Suzuki S, Noguchi Y, Tanaka S, Takase H, Mohri M, Higashiue 
S, Fujimoto N, Iseki H, Kuramochi T, Shibasaki T, Tsutsui H, Takagi Y, Katayama 
Y, Takeyasu N, Anzai T, Nagashima H, Kimura A, Kakuta T, Hashimoto T, Sugino H, 
Saito K, Hiroi S, Kamiya H, Fukui K, Matsuoka S, Moritani K, Tomobuchi Y, Hata 
Y, Kawamura R, Hattori E, Fujimoto K, Takahashi N, Takahashi W, Kadokami T, Ueno 
H, Uchikawa S, Shinozaki T, Onishi Y, Komiyama N, Inoue S, Momiyama Y, Ueda Y, 
Komura Y, Arakawa T, Meno H, Higuchi M, Hayashi Y, Seki K, Fujii K, Harada K, 
Wada A, Kasai T, Kuwahara K, Yasaka Y, Uchida I, Okumura Y, Hisamatsu Y, 
Nunohiro T, Tsukahara K, Hirohata A, Asakura M, De Boer R, Bellersen L, Swart H, 
Groenemeijer B, Zoet Nugteren S, De Nooijer C, Nierop P, Robles De Medina R, Van 
Eck J, Van Hessen M, Drożdż J, Miękus P, Ściborski R, Mikłaszewicz B, Sudnik W, 
Mariankowski R, Witek R, Drelich G, MirekBryniarska E, Szynal S, Pawłowicz L, 
Lampart J, Korzeniak R, Prokopczuk J, Boldueva S, Didenko Y, Dzhaiani N, 
Ermoshkina L, Kostenko V, Vishneva E, Koziolova N, Tereschenko S, Pevzner D, 
Krylova L, Chernyavsky A, Kazakov A, Aksentiev S, Nilk R, Paltsman Z, Galyavich 
A, Maltcev A, Kopylov P, Ezhov A, Shilko J, Antalik L, Bugan V, Fulop P, 
Jamriskova L, Kollarova D, Macek V, Slovenska M, Tomasova L, Vinanska D, Smik R, 
Selecky J, Majercak I, Olexa P, Ljungman C, Hedman A, Lindholm C, Lindmark K, 
Mooe T, Chiang C, Lin L, Liu M, Chang K, Hsia C, Shih J, Liu P, Lin T, Chang H, 
Huang J, Hsieh I, Tseng W, Petrie M, Gardner R, Clark A, Japp A, Jhund P, Lang 
C, Leslie S, Murphy C, Petrie C, Walsh J, Arif A, Avino D, Banerjee S, Kanwar M, 
Berk M, Brown C, Ince C Jr, Lewis T, Nikfarjam A, Patel J, Ramanathan K, 
Schabauer A, Greene T, Shah K, Sotolongo R, Viera A, Akinboboye O, Arouni A, 
Bertolet B, Chandra L, Cimato T, Deleon S, Bennett M, Franchi F, Hamroff G, 
Hotchkiss D, Jardula M, Javier J, Kazemi N, Kostis J, Lash J, Levinson L, Lieber 
I, Lo E, Mahal S, Manshadi R, Mody F, Paraschos A, Pursley M, Hickey G, Londono 
J, Singal D, Srivastava S, Teel J, Castriz J, Kantaros L, Venugopal C, Staniloae 
C, Gupta D, Syed F, Zacharias M, Jaffrani N, Wakefield P, Nassif M, Haddad T, 
Iskander S, Lewis G, Al-Joundi B, French W, Ogunniyi M, Emani S, Weiss S, Cheng 
R, Florea V, Joseph S, Lederman S, Izzo J, Bernstein M, Fruehling E, Foley B, 
Younis L, Song D, Pham V, Nguyen H, Do H, Truong B, Nguyen T, Ho D.

Author information:
(1)British Heart Foundation Cardiovascular Research Centre, University of 
Glasgow, Glasgow, United Kingdom.
(2)Cardiovascular Division, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts.
(3)National Institute of Health and Medical Research, Center for Clinical 
Multidisciplinary Research 1433, INSERM U1116, Nancy, France.
(4)AstraZeneca R&D, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(5)Section of Endocrinology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, 
Connecticut.
(6)Rigshospitalet Copenhagen University Hospital, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(7)Saint Luke's Mid America Heart Institute and University of Missouri-Kansas 
City.
(8)The George Institute for Global Health, University of New South Wales, 
Sydney, Australia.
(9)Universidad Nacional de Córdoba, Córdoba, Argentina.
(10)Center for Heart Diseases, Wroclaw Medical University, Wroclaw, Poland.
(11)TIMI Study Group, Cardiovascular Division, Brigham and Women's Hospital, and 
Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts.

Comment in
    JAMA Cardiol. 2021 Nov 1;6(11):1305-1307.
    JAMA Cardiol. 2022 May 1;7(5):569-570.
    JAMA Cardiol. 2022 May 1;7(5):570.

IMPORTANCE: Sodium glucose cotransporter 2 inhibitors reduce morbidity and 
mortality in patients with heart failure and reduced ejection fraction (HFrEF). 
Clinicians may find estimates of the projected long-term benefits of sodium 
glucose cotransporter 2 inhibitors a helpful addition to clinical trial results 
when communicating the benefits of this class of drug to patients.
OBJECTIVE: To estimate the projected long-term treatment effects of 
dapagliflozin in patients with HFrEF over the duration of a patient's lifetime.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: Exploratory analysis was performed of 
Dapagliflozin and Prevention of Adverse Outcomes in Heart Failure (DAPA-HF), a 
phase 3 randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial conducted at 410 sites in 
20 countries. Patients with an ejection fraction less than or equal to 40% in 
New York Heart Association functional classification II to IV and elevated 
plasma levels of N-terminal pro B-type natriuretic peptide were enrolled between 
February 15, 2017, and August 17, 2018, with final follow-up on June 6, 2019. 
Mean (SD) duration of follow-up was 17.6 (5.2) months.
INTERVENTIONS: Dapagliflozin, 10 mg, once daily vs placebo in addition to 
standard therapy.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: The primary composite outcome was time to first 
hospitalization for heart failure, urgent heart failure visit requiring 
intravenous therapy, or cardiovascular death. The trial results were 
extrapolated to estimate the projected long-term treatment effects of 
dapagliflozin over the duration of a patient's lifetime for the primary outcome 
and the secondary outcome of death from any cause.
RESULTS: A total of 4744 patients (1109 women [23.4%]; 3635 men [76.6%]) were 
randomized in DAPA-HF, with a mean (SD) age of 66.3 (10.9) years. The 
extrapolated mean event-free survival for an individual aged 65 years from a 
primary composite end point event was 6.2 years for placebo and 8.3 years for 
dapagliflozin, representing an event-free survival time gain of 2.1 years (95% 
CI, 0.8-3.3 years; P = .002). When considering death from any cause, mean 
extrapolated life expectancy for an individual aged 65 years was 9.1 years for 
placebo and 10.8 years for dapagliflozin, with a gain in survival of 1.7 years 
(95% CI, 0.1-3.3; P = .03) with dapagliflozin. Similar results were seen when 
extrapolated across the age range studied. In analyses of subgroups of patients 
in DAPA-HF, consistent benefits were seen with dapagliflozin on both event-free 
and overall survival.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: These findings indicate that dapagliflozin provides 
clinically meaningful gains in extrapolated event-free and overall survival. 
These findings may be helpful in communicating the benefits of this treatment to 
patients with HFrEF.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT03036124.

DOI: 10.1001/jamacardio.2021.2632
PMCID: PMC8576587
PMID: 34319398 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: Dr Docherty’s 
employer, the University of Glasgow, was remunerated by AstraZeneca (sponsor of 
Dapagliflozin and Prevention of Adverse Outcomes in Heart Failure [DAPA-HF]) for 
his involvement in the DAPA-HF trial, received personal fees from AstraZeneca 
during the conduct of the study, and received personal fees from Eli Lilly 
outside the submitted work. Dr Jhund’s employer, the University of Glasgow, was 
remunerated by AstraZeneca for working on the DAPA-HF and DELIVER trials, 
received speaker and advisory board fees from AstraZeneca during the conduct of 
the study, received speaker and advisory board fees from Novartis, his employer, 
the University of Glasgow, received remuneration from Novartis for working on 
the PARADIGM-HF and PARAGON-HF trials, received personal fees from Boehringer 
Ingelheim for serving on the advisory board, received grants from Boehringer 
Ingelheim outside the submitted work, and is director of GCTP Ltd. Dr Claggett 
reported receiving consulting fees from AO Biome, Boehringer Ingelheim, Corvia, 
Myokardia, and Novartis for consulting outside the submitted work. Dr Ferreira 
reported receiving nonfinancial support from Boehringer Ingelheim. Dr Bengtsson 
reported receiving personal fees from AstraZeneca as an employee outside the 
submitted work. Dr Inzucchi reported receiving fees from AstraZeneca for travel 
costs during the conduct of the study, personal fees from Boehringer Ingelheim, 
Novo Nordisk, Merck, vTv Therapeutics, Esperion, and Abbott outside the 
submitted work. Dr Køber reported receiving speakers honorarium from Novo, 
Novartis, AstraZeneca, and Boehringer outside the submitted work. Dr Kosiborod 
reported receiving grants from AstraZeneca and Boehringer Ingelheim, and 
consulting fees from Amgen, Applied Therapeutics, AstraZeneca, Bayer, Boehringer 
Ingelheim, Eli Lilly, Janssen, Merck (diabetes), Novo Nordisk, Sanofi, and Vifor 
Pharma outside the submitted work. Dr Langkilde reported being a full-time 
employee and shareholder of AstraZeneca during the conduct of the study. Dr 
Ponikowski reported receiving personal fees and fees to his institution from 
participation as an investigator in clinical trials from AstraZeneca during the 
conduct of the study; personal fees from Boehringer Ingelheim, Vifor Pharma, 
Amgen, Servier, Novartis, Berlin Chemie, Bayer, Pfizer, Cibiem, Impulse 
Dynamics, Renal Guard Solutions, Sanofi, BMS, and Respicardia for participation 
in clinical studies; fees from AbbottVascular as coprincipal investigator of the 
RESHAPE-HF trial; and personal fees from Radcliffe Group outside the submitted 
work. Dr Sabatine reported receiving grants from AstraZeneca to the TIMI Study 
Group at Brigham and Women's Hospital and personal fees from AstraZeneca for 
consulting during the conduct of the study, personal fees from Althera for 
consulting, grants from to the TIMI Study Group at Brigham and Women's Hospital, 
personal fees from Amgen Consulting, personal fees from Anthos Therapeutics for 
consulting, grants from Bayer to the TIMI Study Group at Brigham and Women's 
Hospital, personal fees from Bristol-Myers Squibb for consulting, personal fees 
from CVS Caremark for consulting, grants from Daiichi Sankyo to the TIMI Study 
Group at Brigham and Women's Hospital, personal fees from DalCor for consulting, 
personal fees from Dr Reddy's Laboratories for consulting, personal fees from 
Dyrnamix for consulting, grants from Eisai to the TIMI Study Group at Brigham 
and Women's Hospital, personal fees from Esperion for consulting, personal fees 
from IFM Therapeutics for consulting, grants from Intarcia to the TIMI Study 
Group at Brigham and Women's Hospital, personal fees from Intarcia for 
consulting, grants from Janssen Research and Development to the TIMI Study Group 
at Brigham and Women's Hospital, personal fees from Janssen Research and 
Development for consulting, grants from Medicines Company to the TIMI Study 
Group at Brigham and Women's Hospital, personal fees from the Medicines Company 
for consulting, grants from MedImmune to the TIMI Study Group at Brigham and 
Women's Hospital, personal fees from MedImmune for consulting, grants from to 
the TIMI Study Group at Brigham and Women's Hospital, personal fees from Merck 
for consulting, grants from Novartis to the TIMI Study Group at Brigham and 
Women's Hospital, personal fees from Novartis for consulting, grants from Pfizer 
to the TIMI Study Group at Brigham and Women's Hospital, and grants from Quark 
Pharmaceuticals to the TIMI Study Group at Brigham and Women's Hospital outside 
the submitted work, and is a member of the TIMI Study Group, which has also 
received institutional research grant support through Brigham and Women's 
Hospital from Abbott, Regeneron, Roche, and Zora Biosciences. Dr Sjöstrand 
reported receiving personal fees from AstraZeneca as an employee during the 
conduct of the study and being an AstraZeneca stockholder outside the submitted 
work. Dr Solomon reported receiving grants from AstraZeneca to the institution 
during the conduct of the study; institutional grants from Actelion, Alnylam, 
Amgen, AstraZeneca, Bellerophon, Bayer, BMS, Celladon, Cytokinetics, Eidos, 
Gilead, GSK, Ionis, Lilly, Lone Star Heart, Mesoblast, MyoKardia, NIH/NHLBI, 
Neurotronik, Novartis, Novo Nordisk, Respicardia, Sanofi Pasteur, and Theracos; 
and personal fees from Abbott, Actelion, Akros, Alnylam, Amgen, Arena, 
AstraZeneca, Bayer, Boehringer Ingelheim, BMS, Cardior, Cardurion, Corvia, 
Cytokinetics, Daiichi Sankyo, Gilead, GSK, Ironwood, Lilly, Merck, Myokardia, 
Novartis, Roche, Takeda, Theracos, Quantum Genetics, Cardurion, AoBiome, 
Janssen, Cardiac Dimensions, Sanofi Pasteur, Tenaya, Dinaqor, Tremeau, 
CellProThera, Moderna, and American Regent for consulting outside the submitted 
work. Dr McMurray reported receiving nonfinancial support from AstraZeneca, and 
his employer, Glasgow University, has been paid by AstraZeneca (which markets 
dapagliflozin) for his time spent as principal investigator of DAPA-HF and 
coprincipal investigator of DELIVER and DETERMINE (trials using dapagliflozin) 
in heart failure fees for meetings and other activities related to these trials. 
AstraZeneca has also paid Dr McMurray’s for travel and accommodation for these 
meetings. These payments were made through a consultancy with Glasgow University 
and Dr McMurray has not received personal payments in relation to this 
trial/this drug during the conduct of the study. Nonfinancial support was 
provided by Cytokinetics; Glasgow University has been paid by Cytokinetics for 
Dr McMurray’s time spent as steering committee member for the ATOMIC-HF, 
COSMIC-HF, and GALACTIC-HF trials, meetings, and other activities related to 
these trials. Cytokinetics also paid for travel and accommodation for some of 
these meetings/activities. These payments were made through a consultancy with 
Glasgow University, and Dr McMurray has not received personal payments in 
relation to these trials/this drug. Nonfinancial support was provided by Bayer; 
Glasgow University has been paid by Bayer for Dr McMurray’s time spent as a 
steering committee member for the FINEARTS-HF trial (using finerenone in heart 
failure). These payments were made through a consultancy with Glasgow 
University, and Dr McMurray has not received personal payments in relation to 
this trial/drug. Nonfinancial support was provided by Amgen; Glasgow University 
has been paid by Amgen for Dr McMurray’s time spent as a steering committee 
member for the GALACTIC-HF trial and meetings related to this trial. Amgen also 
paid for travel and accommodation for some of these meetings. These payments 
were made through a consultancy with Glasgow University, and Dr McMurray has not 
received personal payments in relation to these trials/this drug. Nonfinancial 
support was provided by Oxford University/Bayer. Glasgow University has been 
paid by Oxford University (which has received a grant from Bayer, which 
manufactures acarbose) for Dr McMurray’s time spent as a steering committee 
member for the ACE trial (using acarbose) and meetings related to this trial. 
Oxford University also paid for travel and accommodation for some of these 
meetings. These payments were made through a consultancy with Glasgow University 
and Dr McMurray has not received personal payments in relation to this 
trial/this drug. Nonfinancial support was provided by Theracos. Glasgow 
University has been paid by Theracos for Dr McMurray’s time spent as principal 
investigator for the BEST trial and meetings related to this trial. Theracos 
also paid for travel and accommodation for some of these meetings. These 
payments were made through a consultancy with Glasgow University, and Dr 
McMurray has not received personal payments in relation to this trial/this drug. 
Nonfinancial support was provided by DalCor Pharmaceuticals. Glasgow University 
has been paid by DalCor Pharmaceuticals for Dr McMurray’s time spent as a 
steering committee member for the Dal-GenE trial and meetings related to this 
trial. These payments were made through a consultancy with Glasgow University, 
and Dr McMurray has not received personal payments in relation to this 
trial/this drug. Nonfinancial support was provided by Merck. Glasgow University 
has been paid by Merck for Dr McMurray’s time spent on the data safety 
monitoring committee for the MK-3102 program and for the VICTORIA trial and 
meetings related to these trials. These payments were made through a consultancy 
with Glasgow University, and Dr McMurray has not received personal payments in 
relation to this trial/this drug. Nonfinancial support was provided by 
GlaxoSmithKline. Glasgow University has been paid by GlaxoSmithKline for Dr 
McMurray’s time spent as coprincipal investigator for the Harmony-Outcomes trial 
(albiglutide) and steering committee member for 2 trials, ASCEND-D and 
ASCEND-ND, using daprodustat, and meetings related to these trials. 
GlaxoSmithKline also paid for travel and accommodation for some of these 
meetings. These payments were made through a consultancy with Glasgow 
University, and Dr McMurray has not received personal payments in relation to 
these trials/drugs. Nonfinancial support was provided by Bristol Myers Squibb. 
Glasgow University has been paid by Bristol Myers Squibb for Dr McMurray’s time 
spent as a steering committee member for the STAND-UP clinical trial (using a 
nitroxyl [HNO] donor) in heart failure and meetings related to this trial. These 
payments were made through a consultancy with Glasgow University, and Dr 
McMurray has not received personal payments in relation to this trial/drug. 
Nonfinancial support was provided by Vifor Fresenius. Glasgow University has 
been paid by Kings College Hospital (which received a grant from Kidney Research 
UK and Vifor Fresenius, which manufactures intravenous iron) for Dr McMurray’s 
time spent as a steering committee member for the PIVOTAL trial (using 
intravenous iron) and for running the end point adjudication committee for this 
trial, as well as meetings related to the PIVOTAL trial. Kings College Hospital 
also paid for travel and accommodation for some of these meetings. These 
payments were made through a consultancy with Glasgow University, and Dr 
McMurray has not received personal payments in relation to this trial/drug. 
Nonfinancial support was provided by Alnylam. Glasgow University has been paid 
by Alnylam for Dr McMurray’s time spent on the advisory board committee for the 
ALN-AGT trial and meetings related to this trial. These payments were made 
through a consultancy with Glasgow University and Dr McMurray has not received 
personal payments in relation to this trial/this drug. Nonfinancial support was 
provided by AbbVie. Glasgow University has been paid by AbbVie (which 
manufactures atrasentan) for Dr McMurray’s time spent as steering committee 
member for the SONAR trial (using atrasentan) and meetings related to this 
trial. AbbVie also paid for travel and accommodation for some of these meetings. 
These payments were made through a consultancy with Glasgow University, and Dr 
McMurray has not received personal payments in relation to this trial/this drug. 
Glasgow University has been paid by Cyclerion for Dr McMurray’s advice about 
development of praliciguat as a potential therapy for heart failure. Glasgow 
University has been paid by Cardurion for Dr McMurray’s participation in a 
company advisory board about development of a phosphodiesterase 9 inhibitor in 
heart failure. Nonfinancial support was provided by Novartis. Glasgow University 
has been paid by Novartis for Dr McMurray’s time spent as executive committee 
member and then coprincipal investigator of the ATMOSPHERE trial, coprincipal 
investigator of the PARADIGM-HF trial, and executive/steering committee member 
for the PARACHUTE-HF, PARADISE-MI, and PERSPECTIVE trials (with 
sacubitril/valsartan) and meetings/presentations related to these trials and 
aliskiren and sacubitril/valsartan. Novartis also paid for travel and 
accommodation for some of these meetings. These payments were made through a 
consultancy with Glasgow University, and Dr McMurray has not received personal 
payments in relation to this trial/this drug. Glasgow University has also been 
paid by Novartis for Dr McMurray’s participation in a company advisory board, 
which meets twice per year and covers the cardiometabolic field. Nonfinancial 
