Married Adults Coresiding with Older Parents: Implications for Paid Work and 
Domestic Workloads.

Hertog E(1), Kan MY(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.

The rise of life expectancy throughout the developed world has meant that older 
adults play an increasingly important role in their grown-up children's lives. 
We evaluate whether the intergenerational solidarity theory is useful for 
understanding the intergenerational transfers of time in Japan given the 
relatively generous welfare provision for the older adults and the fall in 
intergenerational coresidence. We apply seemingly unrelated regression models to 
data of the 2006 Japanese Survey on Time Use and Leisure Activities (Statistics 
Bureau Japan, 2006) to investigate how coresidence patterns are associated with 
paid and unpaid work time of adult married children. The sample contains 23,226 
married couples where both husband and wife are aged 20 to 59. We find evidence 
of intergenerational solidarity in coresident households. We also find that 
"doing gender" is layered through intergenerational exchanges of support between 
married working-age children and their older parents. Working-age women's time 
use patterns are associated with coresidence arrangements and care needs of 
their older relatives to a much greater extent than working-age men's. The 
observed patterns are consistent with healthy older women supporting their 
daughters' careers in exchange for care when they need help themselves. For 
working-age men, the patterns are not very pronounced. Notably, working-age 
husbands without children appear to be more responsive to their older the 
parents' care needs, suggesting that fatherhood may be associated with 
solidifying gendered role performance within Japanese couples.

© The Author(s) 2021.

DOI: 10.1007/s12062-021-09346-2
PMCID: PMC8639553
PMID: 34868388


987. J Clin Transl Endocrinol. 2021 Nov 17;26:100276. doi: 
10.1016/j.jcte.2021.100276. eCollection 2021 Dec.

Obesity in cystic fibrosis.

Kutney KA(1), Sandouk Z(2), Desimone M(3), Moheet A(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Division of Pediatric Endocrinology, University 
Hospitals, Rainbow Babies and Children's Hospital Case Western Reserve 
University, 11100 Euclid Ave, Suite 737, Cleveland, OH 44106, USA.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Endocrinology, University of 
Michigan, USA.
(3)Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes, and Metabolism, SUNY Upstate Medical 
University, USA.
(4)Department of Medicine, University of Minnesota, USA.

The prevalence of obesity in patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) is increasing 
and around one-third of adults with CF are now overweight or obese. The causes 
of excess weight gain in CF are likely multifactorial, including: adherence to 
the high-fat legacy diet, reduced exercise tolerance, therapeutic advances, and 
general population trends. Increased weight has generally been considered 
favorable in CF, correlating with improved pulmonary function and survival. 
While the optimal BMI for overall health in CF is unknown, most studies 
demonstrate minimal improvement in pulmonary function when BMI exceeds 30 kg/m2. 
Dyslipidemia and cardiovascular disease are important co-morbidities of obesity 
in the general population, but are uncommon in CF. In people with CF, obesity is 
associated with hypertension and higher cholesterol levels. With longer life 
expectancy and rising obesity rates, there may be an increase in cardiovascular 
disease among people with CF in coming years. Overweight CF patients are more 
likely to be insulin resistant, taking on features of type 2 diabetes. Treating 
obesity in people with CF requires carefully weighing the metabolic risks of 
overnutrition with the impact of low or falling BMI on lung function. This 
article describes current knowledge on the epidemiology, causes, consequence, 
and treatment of obesity in people with CF.

© 2021 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcte.2021.100276
PMCID: PMC8626670
PMID: 34868883

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.


988. Front Oncol. 2021 Nov 18;11:784947. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2021.784947.
eCollection  2021.

Humanized Mice as a Valuable Pre-Clinical Model for Cancer Immunotherapy 
Research.

Cogels MM(1)(2), Rouas R(3), Ghanem GE(2), Martinive P(1), Awada A(2)(4), Van 
Gestel D(1), Krayem M(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Institut Jules Bordet, Université Libre de 
Bruxelles, Brussels, Belgium.
(2)Laboratory of Clinical and Experimental Oncology (LOCE), Institut Jules 
Bordet, Université Libre de Bruxelles, Brussels, Belgium.
(3)Laboratory of Cellular Therapy (UTCH), Institut Jules Bordet, Université 
Libre de Bruxelles, Brussels, Belgium.
(4)Department of Medical Oncology, Institut Jules Bordet, Université Libre de 
Bruxelles, Brussels, Belgium.

Immunotherapy with checkpoint inhibitors opened new horizons in cancer 
treatment. Clinical trials for novel immunotherapies or unexplored combination 
regimens either need years of development or are simply impossible to perform 
like is the case in cancer patients with limited life expectancy. Thus, the need 
for preclinical models that rapidly and safely allow for a better understanding 
of underlying mechanisms, drug kinetics and toxicity leading to the selection of 
the best regimen to be translated into the clinic, is of high importance. 
Humanized mice that can bear both human immune system and human tumors, are 
increasingly used in recent preclinical immunotherapy studies and represent a 
remarkably unprecedented tool in this field. In this review, we describe, 
summarize, and discuss the recent advances of humanized mouse models used for 
cancer immunotherapy research and the challenges faced during their 
establishment. We also highlight the lack of preclinical studies using this 
model for radiotherapy-based research and argue that it can be a great asset to 
understand and answer many open questions around radiation therapy such as its 
presumed associated "abscopal effect".

Copyright © 2021 Cogels, Rouas, Ghanem, Martinive, Awada, Van Gestel and Krayem.

DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2021.784947
PMCID: PMC8636317
PMID: 34869042

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


989. Front Cell Infect Microbiol. 2021 Nov 15;11:717689. doi: 
10.3389/fcimb.2021.717689. eCollection 2021.

Shelf-Life Extension of Fc-Fused Single Chain Fragment Variable Antibodies by 
Lyophilization.

Schneider KT(1), Kirmann T(1), Wenzel EV(1)(2), Grosch JH(3)(4), Polten S(1), 
Meier D(1), Becker M(1), Matejtschuk P(5), Hust M(1), Russo G(1)(2), Dübel S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, Technische Universität Braunschweig, 
Braunschweig, Germany.
(2)Abcalis GmbH, Braunschweig, Germany.
(3)Institute of Biochemical Engineering, Technische Universität Braunschweig, 
Braunschweig, Germany.
(4)Center of Pharmaceutical Engineering, Technische Universität Braunschweig, 
Braunschweig, Germany.
(5)Standardisation Science, National Institute for Biological Standards & 
Control (NIBSC), Hertfordshire, United Kingdom.

Generation of sequence defined antibodies from universal libraries by phage 
display has been established over the past three decades as a robust method to 
cope with the increasing market demand in therapy, diagnostics and research. For 
applications requiring the bivalent antigen binding and an Fc part for 
detection, phage display generated single chain Fv (scFv) antibody fragments can 
rapidly be genetically fused to the Fc moiety of an IgG for the production in 
eukaryotic cells of antibodies with IgG-like properties. In contrast to 
conversion of scFv into IgG format, the conversion to scFv-Fc requires only a 
single cloning step, and provides significantly higher yields in transient cell 
culture production than IgG. ScFv-Fcs can be effective as neutralizing 
antibodies in vivo against a panel of pathogens and toxins. However, different 
scFv fragments are more heterologous in respect of stability than Fab fragments. 
While some scFv fragments can be made extremely stable, this may change due to 
few mutations, and is not predictable from the sequence of a newly selected 
antibody. To mitigate the necessity to assess the stability for every scFv-Fc 
antibody, we developed a generic lyophilization protocol to improve their shelf 
life. We compared long-term stability and binding activity of phage 
display-derived antibodies in the scFv-Fc and IgG format, either stored in 
liquid or lyophilized state. Conversion of scFv-Fcs into the full IgG format 
reduced protein degradation and aggregation, but in some cases compromised 
binding activity. Comparably to IgG conversion, lyophilization of scFv-Fc 
resulted in the preservation of the antibodies' initial properties after 
storage, without any drop in affinity for any of the tested antibody clones.

Copyright © 2021 Schneider, Kirmann, Wenzel, Grosch, Polten, Meier, Becker, 
Matejtschuk, Hust, Russo and Dübel.

DOI: 10.3389/fcimb.2021.717689
PMCID: PMC8634725
PMID: 34869052 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: GR, EW, and SD are co-founders and shareholders 
of Abcalis GmbH. SD and MH are co-founders and shareholders of mAb-factory GmbH, 
YUMAB GmbH and NordenVaccines GmbH. DM is co-founder and shareholder of 
mAb-factory GmbH. The remaining authors declare that the research was conducted 
in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could be 
construed as a potential conflict of interest.


990. Oncoscience. 2021 Dec 1;8:110-119. doi: 10.18632/oncoscience.547.
eCollection  2021.

No limit to maximal lifespan in humans: how to beat a 122-year-old record.

Blagosklonny MV(1).

Author information:
(1)Roswell Park Cancer Institute, Buffalo, NY 14263, USA.

Although average human life expectancy is rising, the maximum lifespan is not 
increasing. Leading demographers claim that human lifespan is fixed at a natural 
limit around 122 years. However, there is no fixed limit in animals. In animals, 
anti-aging interventions (dietary restrictions, rapamycin, genetic 
manipulations) postpone age-related diseases and thus automatically extend 
maximum lifespan. In humans, anti-aging interventions have not been yet 
implemented. Instead, by treating individual diseases, medical interventions 
allow a patient to live longer (despite morbidity), expanding morbidity span. In 
contrast, slowly aging individuals (centenarians) enter very old age in good 
health, but, when diseases finally develop, they do not receive thorough medical 
care and die fast. Although the oldest old die from age-related diseases, death 
certificates often list "old age", meaning that diseases were not even diagnosed 
and even less treated. The concept of absolute compression of morbidity is 
misleading in humans (in truth, there is no other way to compress morbidity as 
by denying thorough medical care) and false in animals (in truth, anti-aging 
interventions do not condense morbidity, they postpone it). Anti-aging 
interventions such as rapamycin may potentially extend both healthspan and 
maximal lifespan in humans. Combining anti-aging medicine with cutting-edge 
medical care, regardless of chronological age, will extend maximal lifespan 
further.

DOI: 10.18632/oncoscience.547
PMCID: PMC8636159
PMID: 34869788

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The author has no 
conflicts of interest to declare.


991. Bone Rep. 2021 Nov 22;15:101149. doi: 10.1016/j.bonr.2021.101149.
eCollection  2021 Dec.

The role of the Nrf2/Keap1 signaling cascade in mechanobiology and bone health.

Priddy C(1), Li J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Indiana University - Purdue University Indianapolis, 
Indianapolis, IN, USA.

In conjunction with advancements in modern medicine, bone health is becoming an 
increasingly prevalent concern among a global population with an ever-growing 
life expectancy. Countless factors contribute to declining bone strength, and 
age exacerbates nearly all of them. The detrimental effects of bone loss have a 
profound impact on quality of life. As such, there is a great need for full 
exploration of potential therapeutic targets that may provide antiaging benefits 
and increase the life and strength of bone tissues. The Keap1-Nrf2 pathway is a 
promising avenue of this research. The cytoprotective and antioxidant functions 
of this pathway have been shown to mitigate the deleterious effects of oxidative 
stress on bone tissues, but the exact cellular and molecular mechanisms by which 
this occurs are not yet fully understood. Presently, refined animal and loading 
models are allowing exploration into the effect of the Keap1-Nrf2 pathway in a 
tissue-specific or even cell-specific manner. In addition, Nrf2 activators 
currently undergoing clinical trials can be utilized to investigate the 
particular cellular mechanisms at work in this cytoprotective cascade. Although 
the timing and dosing of treatment with Nrf2 activators need to be further 
investigated, these activators have great potential to be used clinically to 
prevent and treat osteoporosis.

© 2021 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bonr.2021.101149
PMCID: PMC8626578
PMID: 34869801

Conflict of interest statement: None.


992. Anaesth Rep. 2021 Nov 17;9(2):e12138. doi: 10.1002/anr3.12138. eCollection
2021  Jul-Dec.

A case series of paediatric patients with spinal muscular atrophy type I 
undergoing scoliosis correction surgery.

Kong Kam Wa T(1), Holmes C(1), O'Brien K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anaesthesiology Children's Health Ireland at Temple Street 
Dublin Ireland.

Spinal muscular atrophy is a neuromuscular disorder with degeneration of spinal 
motor neurons. Type I is a severe variant that was recently shown to be amenable 
to treatment with the antisense oligonucleotide nusinersen. As a result of 
increased life expectancy with this treatment, more children with spinal 
muscular atrophy type I are presenting for spinal correction surgery. In this 
case series, we present four such patients who underwent spinal surgery at our 
institution over the course of one year. Pre-operative assessment showed 
evidence of reduced respiratory function requiring nocturnal non-invasive 
ventilation in all four patients. A difficult airway was encountered in two of 
the four patients. Postoperative complications were ubiquitous and included CSF 
leak, poor wound healing, metal frame exposure, frame instability and wound 
infection. There were no postoperative respiratory complications and all four 
children returned to their respiratory baseline postoperatively. All patients 
underwent successful lumbar puncture and intrathecal nusinersen injection 
following their spinal surgeries. Given the risk of complications and prolonged 
recovery following spinal surgery, a detailed family discussion is advisable.

© 2021 Association of Anaesthetists.

DOI: 10.1002/anr3.12138
PMCID: PMC8600129
PMID: 34870210


993. Lancet Reg Health Eur. 2022 Jan;12:100267. doi:
10.1016/j.lanepe.2021.100267.  Epub 2021 Nov 30.

Optimising health and economic impacts of COVID-19 vaccine prioritisation 
strategies in the WHO European Region: a mathematical modelling study.

Liu Y(1)(2), Sandmann FG(1)(2)(3), Barnard RC(1)(2), Pearson CAB(1)(2), Pastore 
R(4), Pebody R(4), Flasche S(1)(2), Jit M(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Infectious Disease Epidemiology, Faculty of Epidemiology and 
Population Health, London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine; Keppel St, 
London, United Kingdom WC1E 7HT.
(2)Centre for Mathematical Modelling of Infectious Diseases, London School of 
Hygiene and Tropical Medicine; Keppel St, London, United Kingdom WC1E 7HT.
(3)Statistics, Modelling and Economics Department, National Infection Service, 
Public Health England; 61 Colindale Ave, London, United Kingdom NW9 5EQ.
(4)World Health Organization (WHO) Regional Office for Europe; UN City, 
Marmorvej 51, 2100, Copenhagen, Denmark.

Update of
    medRxiv. 2021 Jul 14;:

BACKGROUND: Countries in the World Health Organization (WHO) European Region 
differ in terms of the COVID-19 vaccine supply conditions. We evaluated the 
health and economic impact of different age-based vaccine prioritisation 
strategies across this demographically and socio-economically diverse region.
METHODS: We fitted age-specific compartmental models to the reported daily 
COVID-19 mortality in 2020 to inform the immunity level before vaccine roll-out. 
Models capture country-specific differences in population structures, contact 
patterns, epidemic history, life expectancy, and GDP per capita.We examined four 
strategies that prioritise: all adults (V+), younger (20-59 year-olds) followed 
by older adults (60+) (V20), older followed by younger adults (V60), and the 
oldest adults (75+) (V75) followed by incrementally younger age groups. We 
explored four roll-out scenarios (R1-4) - the slowest scenario (R1) reached 30% 
coverage by December 2022 and the fastest (R4) 80% by December 2021. Five 
decision-making metrics were summarised over 2021-22: mortality, morbidity, and 
losses in comorbidity-adjusted life expectancy, comorbidity- and 
quality-adjusted life years, and human capital. Six vaccine profiles were tested 
- the highest performing vaccine has 95% efficacy against both infection and 
disease, and the lowest 50% against diseases and 0% against infection.
FINDINGS: Of the 20 decision-making metrics and roll-out scenario combinations, 
the same optimal strategy applied to all countries in only one combination; V60 
was more or similarly desirable than V75 in 19 combinations. Of the 38 countries 
with fitted models, 11-37 countries had variable optimal strategies by 
decision-making metrics or roll-out scenarios. There are greater benefits in 
prioritising older adults when roll-out is slow and when vaccine profiles are 
less favourable.
INTERPRETATION: The optimal age-based vaccine prioritisation strategies were 
sensitive to country characteristics, decision-making metrics, and roll-out 
speeds. A prioritisation strategy involving more age-based stages (V75) does not 
necessarily lead to better health and economic outcomes than targeting broad age 
groups (V60). Countries expecting a slow vaccine roll-out may particularly 
benefit from prioritising older adults.
FUNDING: World Health Organization, Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, the 
Medical Research Council (United Kingdom), the National Institute of Health 
Research (United Kingdom), the European Commission, the Foreign, Commonwealth 
and Development Office (United Kingdom), Wellcome Trust.

© 2021 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1016/j.lanepe.2021.100267
PMCID: PMC8629724
PMID: 34870256

Conflict of interest statement: YL and MJ report grants from the National 
Institute of Health Research outside the submitted work (16/137/109). RCB and MJ 
are participants of the Scientific Pandemic Influenza Group on Modelling. The 
views expressed in this publication are those of the author(s) and not 
necessarily those of the European Commission, National Institute of Health 
Research (NIHR) (UK), Public Health England (PHE) or the Department of Health 
and Social Care (UK). The authors alone are responsible for the views expressed 
in this publication, and they do not necessarily represent the decisions or 
policies of the World Health Organization.


994. Alcohol Alcohol. 2022 Jul 9;57(4):490-499. doi: 10.1093/alcalc/agab075.

Expected Years Of Life Lost Due To Alcohol Consumption In Thai Adults: A 16-Year 
Follow-Up Cohort Of National Health Examination Survey 2004-2019.

Nontarak J(1), Geater AF(2), Assanangkornchai S(2), Aekplakorn W(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Faculty of Public health, Mahidol University, 
Bangkok 10400, Thailand.
(2)Department of Epidemiology, Faculty of Medicine, Prince of Songkla 
University, Songkhla 90110, Thailand.
(3)Department of Community Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Ramathibodi Hospital, 
Rama VI Rd., Ratchathewi, Bangkok 10400, Thailand.

AIMS: Evidence of premature death attributable to alcohol, a modifiable risk 
factor, is crucial for guiding public health policy for alcohol control. The aim 
of this study was to estimate alcohol-related mortality and potential years of 
life lost (PYLL) in Thailand in 2004-2019.
METHODS: We analysed data of the third National Health Examination Survey in 
2004 linked to National Death Registry data of 2004-2019. Causes of death were 
based on International Classification of Diseases version 10. PYLL was 
calculated by cause of death, age group and sex. All analyses were weighted to 
take into account the probabilities for the multi-stage sampling of the 2004 
Thai population aged ≥15 years.
RESULTS: There were 10,704 deaths with a follow-up time of 507,771.7 
person-years. The crude mortality rate of the initial sample was 868.6 per 
100,000 population. The mortality rate attributable to alcohol was 18.6 per 
100,000 population (30.7 per 100,000 population in males and 6.8 per 100,000 
population in females). The top leading cause of alcohol-attributable deaths was 
unspecified liver diseases in both males and females (6.1 and 3.1 per 100,000 
population, respectively). The total years of life lost (YLL) at baseline were 
9.4 million years or 49.5 years per person on average, with significantly more 
years in males. Mortality rate and expected YLL were highest in ages of 
30-44 years, followed by 15-29 years.
CONCLUSION: Males were 4-fold more likely to die from all alcohol-attributable 
causes compared with females. Young adults had a greater loss of life years than 
older adults.

© The Author(s) 2021. Medical Council on Alcohol and Oxford University Press. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1093/alcalc/agab075
PMID: 34871346 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


995. Lancet Oncol. 2022 Jan;23(1):27-52. doi: 10.1016/S1470-2045(21)00581-7. Epub
 2021 Dec 3.

The global burden of adolescent and young adult cancer in 2019: a systematic 
analysis for the Global Burden of Disease Study 2019.

GBD 2019 Adolescent Young Adult Cancer Collaborators.

Collaborators: Alvarez EM, Force LM, Xu R, Compton K, Lu D, Henrikson HJ, 
Kocarnik JM, Harvey JD, Pennini A, Dean FE, Fu W, Vargas MT, Keegan THM, Ariffin 
H, Barr RD, Erdomaeva YA, Gunasekera DS, John-Akinola YO, Ketterl TG, Kutluk T, 
Malogolowkin MH, Mathur P, Radhakrishnan V, Ries LAG, Rodriguez-Galindo C, 
Sagoyan GB, Sultan I, Abbasi B, Abbasi-Kangevari M, Abbasi-Kangevari Z, 
Abbastabar H, Abdelmasseh M, Abd-Elsalam S, Abdoli A, Abebe H, Abedi A, Abidi H, 
Abolhassani H, Abubaker Ali H, Abu-Gharbieh E, Achappa B, Acuna JM, Adedeji IA, 
Adegboye OA, Adnani QES, Advani SM, Afzal MS, Aghaie Meybodi M, Ahadinezhad B, 
Ahinkorah BO, Ahmad S, Ahmadi S, Ahmed MB, Ahmed Rashid T, Ahmed Salih Y, Aiman 
W, Akalu GT, Al Hamad H, Alahdab F, AlAmodi AA, Alanezi FM, Alanzi TM, Alem AZ, 
Alem DT, Alemayehu Y, Alhalaiqa FN, Alhassan RK, Ali S, Alicandro G, Alipour V, 
Aljunid SM, Alkhayyat M, Alluri S, Almasri NA, Al-Maweri SA, Almustanyir S, 
Al-Raddadi RM, Alvis-Guzman N, Ameyaw EK, Amini S, Amu H, Ancuceanu R, Andrei 
CL, Andrei T, Ansari F, Ansari-Moghaddam A, Anvari D, Anyasodor AE, Arabloo J, 
Arab-Zozani M, Argaw AM, Arshad M, Arulappan J, Aryannejad A, Asemi Z, Asghari 
Jafarabadi M, Atashzar MR, Atorkey P, Atreya A, Attia S, Aujayeb A, Ausloos M, 
Avila-Burgos L, Awedew AF, Ayala Quintanilla BP, Ayele AD, Ayen SS, Azab MA, 
Azadnajafabad S, Azami H, Azangou-Khyavy M, Azari Jafari A, Azarian G, Azzam AY, 
Bahadory S, Bai J, Baig AA, Baker JL, Banach M, Bärnighausen TW, Barone-Adesi F, 
Barra F, Barrow A, Basaleem H, Batiha AM, Behzadifar M, Bekele NC, Belete R, 
Belgaumi UI, Bell AW, Berhie AY, Bhagat DS, Bhagavathula AS, Bhardwaj N, 
Bhardwaj P, Bhaskar S, Bhattacharyya K, Bhojaraja VS, Bibi S, Bijani A, Biondi 
A, Birara S, Bjørge T, Bolarinwa OA, Bolla SR, Boloor A, Braithwaite D, Brenner 
H, Bulamu NB, Burkart K, Bustamante-Teixeira MT, Butt NS, Butt ZA, Caetano Dos 
Santos FL, Cao C, Cao Y, Carreras G, Catalá-López F, Cembranel F, Cerin E, 
Chakinala RC, Chakraborty PA, Chattu VK, Chaturvedi P, Chaurasia A, Chavan PP, 
Chimed-Ochir O, Choi JJ, Christopher DJ, Chu DT, Chung MT, Conde J, Costa VM, 
Da'ar OB, Dadras O, Dahlawi SMA, Dai X, Damiani G, D'Amico E, Dandona L, Dandona 
R, Daneshpajouhnejad P, Darwish AH, Daryani A, De la Hoz FP, Debela SA, Demie 
TGG, Demissie GD, Demissie ZG, Denova-Gutiérrez E, Derbew Molla M, Desai R, 
Desta AA, Dhamnetiya D, Dharmaratne SD, Dhimal ML, Dhimal M, Dianatinasab M, 
Didehdar M, Diress M, Djalalinia S, Do HP, Doaei S, Dorostkar F, Dos Santos WM, 
Drake TM, Ekholuenetale M, El Sayed I, El Sayed Zaki M, El Tantawi M, El-Abid H, 
Elbahnasawy MA, Elbarazi I, Elhabashy HR, Elhadi M, El-Jaafary SI, Enyew DB, 
Erkhembayar R, Eshrati B, Eskandarieh S, Faisaluddin M, Fares J, Farooque U, 
Fasanmi AO, Fatima W, Ferreira de Oliveira JMP, Ferrero S, Ferro Desideri L, 
Fetensa G, Filip I, Fischer F, Fisher JL, Foroutan M, Fukumoto T, Gaal PA, Gad 
MM, Gaewkhiew P, Gallus S, Garg T, Gebremeskel TG, Gemeda BNB, Getachew T, 
Ghafourifard M, Ghamari SH, Ghashghaee A, Ghassemi F, Ghith N, Gholami A, 
Gholizadeh Navashenaq J, Gilani SA, Ginindza TG, Gizaw AT, Glasbey JC, Goel A, 
Golechha M, Goleij P, Golinelli D, Gopalani SV, Gorini G, Goudarzi H, Goulart 
BNG, Grada A, Gubari MIM, Guerra MR, Guha A, Gupta B, Gupta S, Gupta VB, Gupta 
VK, Haddadi R, Hafezi-Nejad N, Hailu A, Haj-Mirzaian A, Halwani R, Hamadeh RR, 
Hambisa MT, Hameed S, Hamidi S, Haque S, Hariri S, Haro JM, Hasaballah AI, Hasan 
SMM, Hashemi SM, Hassan TS, Hassanipour S, Hay SI, Hayat K, Hebo SH, Heidari G, 
Heidari M, Herrera-Serna BY, Herteliu C, Heyi DZ, Hezam K, Hole MK, Holla R, 
Horita N, Hossain MM, Hossain MB, Hosseini MS, Hosseini M, Hosseinzadeh A, 
Hosseinzadeh M, Hostiuc M, Hostiuc S, Househ M, Hsairi M, Huang J, Hussein NR, 
Hwang BF, Ibitoye SE, Ilesanmi OS, Ilic IM, Ilic MD, Innos K, Irham LM, Islam 
RM, Islam SMS, Ismail NE, Isola G, Iwagami M, Jacob L, Jadidi-Niaragh F, Jain V, 
Jakovljevic M, Janghorban R, Javadi Mamaghani A, Jayaram S, Jayawardena R, 
Jazayeri SB, Jebai R, Jha RP, Joo T, Joseph N, Joukar F, Jürisson M, Kaambwa B, 
Kabir A, Kalankesh LR, Kaliyadan F, Kamal Z, Kamath A, Kandel H, Kar SS, Karaye 
IM, Karimi A, Kassa BG, Kauppila JH, Kemp Bohan PM, Kengne AP, Kerbo AA, 
Keykhaei M, Khader YS, Khajuria H, Khalili N, Khalili N, Khan EA, Khan G, Khan 
M, Khan MN, Khan MA, Khanali J, Khayamzadeh M, Khosravizadeh O, Khubchandani J, 
Khundkar R, Kim MS, Kim YJ, Kisa A, Kisa S, Kissimova-Skarbek K, Kolahi AA, 
Kopec JA, Koteeswaran R, Koulmane Laxminarayana SL, Koyanagi A, Kugbey N, Kumar 
GA, Kumar N, Kwarteng A, La Vecchia C, Lan Q, Landires I, Lasrado S, Lauriola P, 
Ledda C, Lee SW, Lee WC, Lee YY, Lee YH, Leigh J, Leong E, Li B, Li J, Li MC, 
Lim SS, Liu X, Lobo SW, Loureiro JA, Lugo A, Lunevicius R, Magdy Abd El Razek H, 
Magdy Abd El Razek M, Mahmoudi M, Majeed A, Makki A, Male S, Malekpour MR, 
Malekzadeh R, Malik AA, Mamun MA, Manafi N, Mansour-Ghanaei F, Mansouri B, 
Mansournia MA, Martini S, Masoumi SZ, Matei CN, Mathur MR, McAlinden C, Mehrotra 
R, Mendoza W, Menezes RG, Mentis AA, Meretoja TJ, Mersha AG, Mesregah MK, 
Mestrovic T, Miao Jonasson J, Miazgowski B, Michalek IM, Miller TR, Mingude AB, 
Mirmoeeni S, Mirzaei H, Misra S, Mithra P, Mohammad KA, Mohammadi M, Mohammadi 
SM, Mohammadian-Hafshejani A, Mohammadpourhodki R, Mohammed A, Mohammed S, 
Mohammed TA, Moka N, Mokdad AH, Molokhia M, Momtazmanesh S, Monasta L, Moni MA, 
Moradi G, Moradi Y, Moradzadeh M, Moradzadeh R, Moraga P, Morrison SD, Mostafavi 
E, Mousavi Khaneghah A, Mpundu-Kaambwa C, Mubarik S, Mwanri L, Nabhan AF, 
Nagaraju SP, Nagata C, Naghavi M, Naimzada MD, Naldi L, Nangia V, Naqvi AA, 
Narasimha Swamy S, Narayana AI, Nayak BP, Nayak VC, Nazari J, Nduaguba SO, Negoi 
I, Negru SM, Nejadghaderi SA, Nepal S, Neupane Kandel S, Nggada HA, Nguyen CT, 
Nnaji CA, Nosrati H, Nouraei H, Nowroozi A, Nuñez-Samudio V, Nwatah VE, Nzoputam 
CI, Oancea B, Odukoya OO, Oguntade AS, Oh IH, Olagunju AT, Olagunju TO, Olakunde 
BO, Oluwasanu MM, Omar E, Omar Bali A, Ong S, Onwujekwe OE, Ortega-Altamirano 
DV, Otstavnov N, Otstavnov SS, Oumer B, Owolabi MO, P A M, Padron-Monedero A, 
Padubidri JR, Pakshir K, Pana A, Pandey A, Pardhan S, Pashazadeh Kan F, Pasovic 
M, Patel JR, Pati S, Pattanshetty SM, Paudel U, Pereira RB, Peres MFP, 
Perianayagam A, Postma MJ, Pourjafar H, Pourshams A, Prashant A, Pulakunta T, 
Qadir MMFF, Rabiee M, Rabiee N, Radfar A, Radhakrishnan RA, Rafiee A, Rafiei A, 
Rafiei S, Rahim F, Rahimzadeh S, Rahman M, Rahman MA, Rahmani AM, Rajesh A, 
Ramezani-Doroh V, Ranabhat K, Ranasinghe P, Rao CR, Rao SJ, Rashedi S, Rashidi 
M, Rashidi MM, Rath GK, Rawaf DL, Rawaf S, Rawal L, Rawassizadeh R, Razeghinia 
MS, Regasa MT, Renzaho AMN, Rezaei M, Rezaei N, Rezaei N, Rezaeian M, Rezapour 
A, Rezazadeh-Khadem S, Riad A, Rios Lopez LE, Rodriguez JAB, Ronfani L, 
Roshandel G, Rwegerera GM, Saber-Ayad MM, Sabour S, Saddik B, Sadeghi E, 
Sadeghian S, Saeed U, Sahebkar A, Saif-Ur-Rahman KM, Sajadi SM, Salahi S, Salehi 
S, Salem MR, Salimzadeh H, Samy AM, Sanabria J, Sanmarchi F, Sarveazad A, 
Sathian B, Sawhney M, Sawyer SM, Saylan M, Schneider IJC, Seidu AA, Šekerija M, 
Sendo EG, Sepanlou SG, Seylani A, Seyoum K, Sha F, Shafaat O, Shaikh MA, 
Shamsoddin E, Shannawaz M, Sharma R, Sheikhbahaei S, Shetty A, Shetty BSK, 
Shetty PH, Shin JI, Shirkoohi R, Shivakumar KM, Shobeiri P, Siabani S, Sibhat 
MM, Siddappa Malleshappa SK, Sidemo NB, Silva DAS, Silva Julian G, Singh AD, 
Singh JA, Singh JK, Singh S, Sinke AH, Sintayehu Y, Skryabin VY, Skryabina AA, 
Smith L, Sofi-Mahmudi A, Soltani-Zangbar MS, Song S, Spurlock EE, Steiropoulos 
P, Straif K, Subedi R, Sufiyan MB, Suliankatchi Abdulkader R, Sultana S, 
Szerencsés V, Szócska M, Tabaeian SP, Tabarés-Seisdedos R, Tabary M, Tabuchi T, 
Tadbiri H, Taheri M, Taherkhani A, Takahashi K, Tampa M, Tan KK, Tat VY, 
Tavakoli A, Tbakhi A, Tehrani-Banihashemi A, Temsah MH, Tesfay FH, Tesfaye B, 
Thakur JS, Thapar R, Thavamani A, Thiyagarajan A, Thomas N, Tobe-Gai R, Togtmol 
M, Tohidast SA, Tohidinik HR, Tolani MA, Tollosa DN, Touvier M, Tovani-Palone 
MR, Traini E, Tran BX, Tran MTN, Tripathy JP, Tusa BS, Ukke GG, Ullah I, Ullah 
S, Umapathi KK, Unnikrishnan B, Upadhyay E, Ushula TW, Vacante M, Valadan Tahbaz 
S, Varthya SB, Veroux M, Villeneuve PJ, Violante FS, Vlassov V, Vu GT, Waheed Y, 
Wang N, Ward P, Weldesenbet AB, Wen YF, Westerman R, Winkler AS, Wubishet BL, Xu 
S, Yahyazadeh Jabbari SH, Yang L, Yaya S, Yazdi-Feyzabadi V, Yazie TS, 
Yehualashet SS, Yeshaneh A, Yeshaw Y, Yirdaw BW, Yonemoto N, Younis MZ, Yousefi 
Z, Yu C, Yunusa I, Zadnik V, Zahir M, Zahirian Moghadam T, Zamani M, Zamanian M, 
Zandian H, Zare F, Zastrozhin MS, Zastrozhina A, Zhang J, Zhang ZJ, Ziapour A, 
Zoladl M, Murray CJL, Fitzmaurice C, Bleyer A, Bhakta N.

Comment in
    Lancet Oncol. 2022 Jan;23(1):2-3.

BACKGROUND: In estimating the global burden of cancer, adolescents and young 
adults with cancer are often overlooked, despite being a distinct subgroup with 
unique epidemiology, clinical care needs, and societal impact. Comprehensive 
estimates of the global cancer burden in adolescents and young adults (aged 
15-39 years) are lacking. To address this gap, we analysed results from the 
Global Burden of Diseases, Injuries, and Risk Factors Study (GBD) 2019, with a 
focus on the outcome of disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs), to inform global 
cancer control measures in adolescents and young adults.
METHODS: Using the GBD 2019 methodology, international mortality data were 
collected from vital registration systems, verbal autopsies, and 
population-based cancer registry inputs modelled with mortality-to-incidence 
ratios (MIRs). Incidence was computed with mortality estimates and corresponding 
MIRs. Prevalence estimates were calculated using modelled survival and 
multiplied by disability weights to obtain years lived with disability (YLDs). 
Years of life lost (YLLs) were calculated as age-specific cancer deaths 
multiplied by the standard life expectancy at the age of death. The main outcome 
was DALYs (the sum of YLLs and YLDs). Estimates were presented globally and by 
Socio-demographic Index (SDI) quintiles (countries ranked and divided into five 
equal SDI groups), and all estimates were presented with corresponding 95% 
uncertainty intervals (UIs). For this analysis, we used the age range of 15-39 
years to define adolescents and young adults.
FINDINGS: There were 1·19 million (95% UI 1·11-1·28) incident cancer cases and 
396 000 (370 000-425 000) deaths due to cancer among people aged 15-39 years 
worldwide in 2019. The highest age-standardised incidence rates occurred in high 
SDI (59·6 [54·5-65·7] per 100 000 person-years) and high-middle SDI countries 
(53·2 [48·8-57·9] per 100 000 person-years), while the highest age-standardised 
mortality rates were in low-middle SDI (14·2 [12·9-15·6] per 100 000 
person-years) and middle SDI (13·6 [12·6-14·8] per 100 000 person-years) 
countries. In 2019, adolescent and young adult cancers contributed 23·5 million 
(21·9-25·2) DALYs to the global burden of disease, of which 2·7% (1·9-3·6) came 
from YLDs and 97·3% (96·4-98·1) from YLLs. Cancer was the fourth leading cause 
of death and tenth leading cause of DALYs in adolescents and young adults 
globally.
INTERPRETATION: Adolescent and young adult cancers contributed substantially to 
the overall adolescent and young adult disease burden globally in 2019. These 
results provide new insights into the distribution and magnitude of the 
adolescent and young adult cancer burden around the world. With notable 
differences observed across SDI settings, these estimates can inform global and 
country-level cancer control efforts.
FUNDING: Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, American Lebanese Syrian Associated 
Charities, St Baldrick's Foundation, and the National Cancer Institute.

Copyright © 2022 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an Open 
Access article under the CC BY 4.0 license. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1470-2045(21)00581-7
PMCID: PMC8716339
PMID: 34871551 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests R Ancuceanu reports 
consulting fees from Abbvie; and payment or honoraria for lectures, 
presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing or educational events from 
Abbvie, Sandoz and B. Braun, all outside the submitted work. H Ariffin reports 
payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript 
writing or educational events from Amgen, all outside the submitted work. M 
Atashzar reports support for the present manuscript from medical writing and 
analysis of data. M Atashzar reports paid consulting fees; and receipt of 
equipment, materials, drugs, medical writing, gifts or other services from 
medical writing, all outside the submitted work. P Atorkey reports support for 
the present manuscript from the School of Medicine and Public Health, University 
of Newcastle, Australia, Hunter Medical Research Institute, University of 
Newcastle, Australia, and Hunter New England, Population Health. A Aujayeb 
reports grants or contracts from Rocket Medical Plc; payment or honoraria for 
lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing or educational 
events from Rocket Medical Plc for talks given on pneumothorax and work done on 
digital suction device; and leadership or fiduciary role in board, society, 
committee or advocacy group, paid or unpaid with Mesothelioma UK as Trustee, all 
outside the submitted work. M Ausloos reports grants or contracts from the 
Romanian National Authority for Scientific Research and Innovation, 
CNDS-UEFISCDI, project number PN-III-P4-ID-PCCF-2016-0084 “Understanding and 
modelling time-space patterns of psychology-related inequalities and 
polarization”; all outside the submitted work. T Bärnighausen reports grants or 
contracts from the European Union (Horizon 2020 and EIT Health), German Research 
Foundation (DFG), US National Institutes of Health, German Ministry of Education 
and Research, Alexander von Humboldt Foundation, 
Else-Kräner-Fresenius-Foundation, Wellcome Trust, Bill & Melinda Gates 
Foundation, KfW, UNAIDS, and WHO; consulting fees from KfW on the OSCAR 
initiative in Vietnam; participation on a Data Safety Monitoring Board or 
Advisory Board with NIH-funded study “Healthy Options” as Chair of the Data 
Safety and Monitoring Board (DSMB), German National Committee on the “Future of 
Public Health Research and Education”; Chair of the scientific advisory board to 
the EDCTP Evaluation; Member of the UNAIDS Evaluation Expert Advisory Committee; 
National Institutes of Health Study Section Member on Population and Public 
Health Approaches to HIV/AIDS (PPAH), US National Academies of Sciences, 
Engineering, and Medicine's Committee for the “Evaluation of Human Resources for 
Health in the Republic of Rwanda under the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS 
Relief (PEPFAR)”, University of Pennsylvania (UPenn) Population Aging Research 
Center (PARC) as an External Advisory Board Member; leadership or fiduciary role 
in board, society, committee or advocacy group, paid or unpaid as a Co-chair of 
the Global Health Hub Germany (which was initiated by the German Ministry of 
Health); all outside the submitted work. N Bekele reports participation on a 
Data Safety Monitoring Board or Advisory Board as Ethical review board member 
for two years; and leadership or fiduciary role in board, society, committee or 
advocacy group, paid or unpaid with Wollo University as an unpaid graduate 
program coordinator for three years, all outside the submitted work. S Bhaskar 
reports grants or contracts from NSW Ministry of Health, NSW Brain Clot Bank; 
and leadership or fiduciary role in board, society, committee or advocacy group, 
paid or unpaid with Rotary Club of Sydney, Australia as Board Director, 
International Rotary Fellowship of Rotarian Healthcare Professionals (IRFRHP), 
UK as Board Director, and BMC Neurology as Editorial Board Member, all outside 
the submitted work. J Conde reports grants or contracts from European Research 
Council Starting Grant, ERC-StG-2019-848325; patents planned, issued or pending, 
as Functionalized nanoparticles and compositions for cancer treatment and 
methods, U.S. Application No. 62/334538 and TRPV2 Antagonists, WO Application 
No. PCT/PT2018/050035; and support from TargTex S.A. as co-founder and 
shareholder, all outside the submitted work. X Dai reports support for the 
present manuscript from Bloomberg Philanthropies and the Bill and Melinda Gates 
Foundation through their employment at IHME. I Filip reports payment or 
honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing or 
educational events from Avicenna Medical and Clinical Research Institute, all 
outside the submitted work. L Force reports support for the present manuscript 
from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and American Lebanese Syrian 
Associated Charities for providing funding, related to their employment at IHME. 
L. Force reports grants or contracts from St Baldrick's Foundation; leadership 
or fiduciary role in board, society, committee or advocacy group, unpaid with 
the Lancet Oncology International Advisory Board; and payments towards federal 
student loans from the NIH Loan Repayment Award, all outside the submitted work. 
F Ghassemi reports support for the present manuscript for medical writing and 
literature review. N Ghith reports grants or contracts from NovoNordisc 
Foundation through salary covered by grant NNF16OC0021856, all outside the 
submitted work. A Guha reports grants or contracts from American Heart 
Association-Strategically Focused Research Network Grant in Disparities in 
Cardio-Oncology (#847740,#863620), all outside the submitted work. V Gupta 
reports grants or contracts from National Health and Medical research Council 
(NHMRC) Australia, all outside the submitted work. J Haro reports grants or 
contracts from Eli Lilly and Co., all outside the submitted work. H Henrikson 
reports support for the present manuscript from the Bill and Melinda Gates 
Foundation, American Lebanese Syrian Associated Charities, and Saint Baldrick's 
Foundation, all for providing funding, related to their employment at IHME. C 
Herteliu reports grants or contracts from Romanian National Authority for 
Scientific Research and Innovation, CNDS-UEFISCDI, project number 
PN-III-P4-ID-PCCF-2016-0084, grant title “Understanding and modelling time-space 
patterns of psychology-related inequalities and polarization” as research team 
member, and from Romanian National Authority for Scientific Research and 
Innovation, CNDS-UEFISCDI, project number PN-III-P2-2.1-SOL-2020-2-0351, grant 
title “Approaches within public health management in the context of COVID-19 
pandemic,” as project manager, all outside the submitted work. K Innos reports 
support for the present manuscript from Estonian Research Council, Grant No 
PRG722. S M S Islam reports grants or contracts from the NHMRC Emerging 
Leadership Fellowship and the National Heart Foundation of Australia Fellowship, 
all outside the submitted work. N E Ismail reports leadership or fiduciary role 
in board, society, committee or advocacy group, paid or unpaid with Malaysian 
Academy of Pharmacy as an unpaid Council Member, all outside the submitted work. 
I Karaye reports support for the present manuscript from the Bill and Melinda 
Gates Foundation, American Lebanese Syrian Associated Charities, and Saint 
Baldrick's Foundation, all for providing funding, related to their employment at 
IHME. J Kauppila reports grants or contracts from Sigrid Juselius Foundation, 
Finnish Cancer Foundation, and Päivikki and Sakari Sohlberg Foundation, all 
outside the submitted work. T Ketterl reports consulting fees from Fennec 
Pharmaceuticals, Inc for advisory services, all outside the submitted work. J 
Kocarnik reports support for the present manuscript from the Bill and Melinda 
Gates Foundation and American Lebanese Syrian Associated Charities for providing 
funding, related to their employment at IHME. M-C Li reports support for the 
present manuscript from Ministry of Science and Technology, Taiwan (MOST 
110-2314-B-003-001). J A Loureiro reports support for the present manuscript 
from Scientific Employment Stimulus (FCT), CEECINST/00049/2018, for salary 
support and Base Funding, UIDB/00511/2020 of the LEPABE, funded by national 
funds through the FCT/MCTES (PIDDAC) for research support. M Mahmoudi reports 
support from the Academic Parity Movement, as co-founder and director; support 
from Partners in Global Wound Care (PGWC) as Founding Partner; and reports 
royalties/honoraria for published books, plenary lectures, and licensed patent, 
all outside the submitted work. O Odukoya reports support for the present 
manuscript from the Fogarty International Center of the National Institutes of 
Health under the Award Number K43TW010704. A Pana reports grants or contracts 
from ARPIM, Amgen, Janssen, Astra Zeneca, Novartis Oncology, BMS, Angelini, and 
Servier; and participation on a Data Safety Monitoring Board or Advisory Board 
with Novartis Oncology and Pfizer, all outside the submitted work. M Postma 
reports stock or stock options in Pharmacoeconomics Advice Groningen and 
Health-Ecore, all outside the submitted work. A Radfar reports payment or 
honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing or 
educational events from Avicenna Medical and Clinical Research Institute, all 
outside the submitted work. A Riad reports grants or contracts from Masaryk 
University; and support from Cochrane Collaboration as deputy director of 
Cochrane Czech Republic center, all outside the submitted work. M Saylan reports 
support from their employer Bayer, all outside the submitted work. M Šekerija 
reports payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, 
manuscript writing or educational events from Roche and Johnson & Johnson, all 
outside the submitted work. D A Santos Silva reports support for the present 
manuscript from Coordenação de Aperfeiçoamento de Pessoal de Nível 
Superior—Brazil (CAPES) and National Council for Scientific and Technological 
Development (CNPq), Brazil. D A Santos Silva reports grants or contracts from 
the Coordenação de Aperfeiçoamento de Pessoal de Nível Superior—Brazil 
(CAPES)—Finance Code 001 and is supported in part by National Council for 
Scientific and Technological Development (CNPq), Brazil (302028/2018-8), all 
outside the submitted work. J A Singh reports consulting fees from 
Crealta/Horizon, Medisys, Fidia, PK Med, Two labs Inc, Adept Field Solutions, 
Clinical Care options, Clearview healthcare partners, Putnam associates, Focus 
forward, Navigant consulting, Spherix, MedIQ, Jupiter Life Science, UBM LLC, 
Trio Health, Medscape, WebMD, and Practice Point communications, and the 
National Institutes of Health and the American College of Rheumatology; payment 
or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing 
or educational events from Simply Speaking; support for attending meetings 
and/or travel from OMERACT, an international organization that develops measures 
for clinical trials and receives arm's length funding from 12 pharmaceutical 
companies, when traveling to OMERACT meetings; participation on a Data Safety 
Monitoring Board or Advisory Board as a member of the FDA Arthritis Advisory 
Committee; leadership or fiduciary role in other board, society, committee or 
advocacy group, paid or unpaid, with OMERACT as a member of the steering 
committee, with the Veterans Affairs Rheumatology Field Advisory Committee as a 
chair member, and with the UAB Cochrane Musculoskeletal Group Satellite Center 
on Network Meta-analysis as Director and editor; stock or stock options in TPT 
Global Tech, Vaxart pharmaceuticals, Atyu biopharma, Charlotte's Web Holdings 
Inc. and previously owned stock options in Amarin, Viking, and Moderna 
pharmaceuticals; all outside the submitted work.


996. Blood Adv. 2022 Feb 8;6(3):909-919. doi: 10.1182/bloodadvances.2021006254.

Informing radiotherapy decisions in stage I/IIa Hodgkin lymphoma: modeling life 
expectancy using radiation dosimetry.

Jones DA(1), Candio P(1), Shakir R(2), Ntentas G(2)(3), Ramroth J(2), Gray 
AM(1), Cutter DJ(2)(4).

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Centre and.
(2)Clinical Trial Service Unit, Nuffield Department of Population Health, 
University of Oxford, Oxford, United Kingdom.
(3)Guy's and St Thomas' NHS Foundation Trust, Department of Medical Physics, 
London, United Kingdom; and.
(4)Oxford Cancer and Haematology Centre, Oxford University Hospitals NHS 
Foundation Trust, Oxford, United Kingdom.

In recent randomized trials, omitting consolidative radiotherapy (RT) in 
early-stage Hodgkin lymphoma (ESHL) increased relapses. However, decades of 
follow-up are required to observe whether lower initial disease control is 
compensated by reduced risk of late effects. Extrapolation beyond trial 
follow-up is therefore necessary to inform current treatment decisions. To this 
end, we developed a microsimulation model to estimate lifetime quality-adjusted 
life years (QALYs) after combined modality treatment (CMT) or chemotherapy-alone 
for stage I/IIa ESHL. For CMT, the model included risks of breast and lung 
cancer, coronary heart disease, and ischemic stroke. Comparative outcomes were 
assessed for a clinically relevant range of example patients differing by age, 
sex, smoking status, and representative organs at risk (OAR) radiation doses 
informed by the RAPID trial. Analysis was performed with and without a 3.5% 
discount rate on future health. Smoking status had a large effect on optimal 
treatment choice. CMT was superior for nearly all never smoker example patients 
regardless of age, sex, and OAR doses. At a maximum, CMT produced a 1.095 (95% 
CI: 1.054-1.137) gain in undiscounted QALYs for a 20-year-old male never smoker 
with unilateral neck disease. In contrast, current smokers could substantially 
gain from chemotherapy-alone treatment. Again at a maximum, a 20-year-old male 
current smoker with bilateral neck and whole mediastinum involvement gained 
3.500 (95% CI: 3.400 to 3.600) undiscounted QALYs with chemotherapy-alone 
treatment. Overall, CMT was more favorable the younger the patient, when future 
health discounting was included, and in never smokers.

© 2022 by The American Society of Hematology. Licensed under Creative Commons 
Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International (CC BY-NC-ND 4.0), 
permitting only noncommercial, nonderivative use with attribution. All other 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1182/bloodadvances.2021006254
PMCID: PMC8945315
PMID: 34872107 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


997. Clin Oncol (R Coll Radiol). 2022 Apr;34(4):220-229. doi: 
10.1016/j.clon.2021.11.012. Epub 2021 Dec 3.

Post-cricoid and Upper Oesophagus Cancers Treated with Organ Preservation Using 
Intensity-modulated Image-guided Radiotherapy: a Phase II Prospective Study of 
Outcomes, Toxicity and Quality of Life.

Laskar SG(1), Sinha S(2), Singh M(2), Mummudi N(2), Mittal R(2), Gavarraju A(2), 
Budrukkar A(2), Swain M(2), Agarwal JP(2), Gupta T(2), Murthy V(2), Mokal S(3), 
Patil V(4), Noronha V(4), Joshi A(4), Menon N(4), Prabhash K(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Tata Memorial Centre, Homi Bhabha National 
Institute, Mumbai, India. Electronic address: sarbanilaskar@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Radiation Oncology, Tata Memorial Centre, Homi Bhabha National 
Institute, Mumbai, India.
(3)Clinical Research Secretariat, Tata Memorial Centre, Homi Bhabha National 
Institute, Mumbai, India.
(4)Department of Medical Oncology, Tata Memorial Centre, Homi Bhabha National 
Institute, Mumbai, India.

AIMS: To prospectively examine the outcomes, toxicity and quality of life (QoL) 
of patients with post-cricoid and upper oesophagus (PCUE) cancers treated with 
an organ-preservation approach of (chemo)-radiotherapy using intensity-modulated 
image-guided radiotherapy (IM-IGRT).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This phase II prospective study was conducted at a 
tertiary cancer centre from February 2017 to January 2020. Forty patients with 
squamous cell carcinoma of PCUE of stage T1-3, N0-2, M0 were accrued. Gross 
exolaryngeal extension/dysfunctional larynx were major exclusion criteria. 
Patients received 63-66 Gy in once-daily fractions using volumetric modulated 
arc therapy with daily IGRT. Outcome measures included disease-related outcomes, 
patterns of failure, Radiation Therapy Oncology Group toxicities, feeding tube 
dependency and QoL.
RESULTS: The median follow-up was 22 months. Twenty-six (87.5%) patients had 
locoregionally advanced disease and 34 (85%) patients received 
(chemo)-radiotherapy. A complete response was observed in 26 (65%) patients. The 
2-year locoregional control, event-free survival and cause-specific survival 
were 59.6%, 40.2% and 44.8%, respectively. The volume of primary tumour 
(GTVPvol) exceeding 28 cm3 had inferior overall survival (P = 0.005) on 
univariate analysis. Multivariable analysis showed GTVPvol and positron emission 
tomography-computed tomography maximum standardised uptake value to be 
independently predictive for event-free and overall survival. A feeding tube 
requirement at presentation was seen in 11 (27.5%) patients, whereas long-term 
feeding tube dependency at 6 months was seen in 10 (37%) patients. For QoL, a 
statistical improvement in pain, appetite loss and swallowing was observed over 
time.
CONCLUSION: Although the outcomes of PCUE cancers remain dismal, the use of 
state of the art diagnostic modalities, careful case selection and modern 
radiotherapy techniques improved outcomes as compared with before in this 
exclusive analysis of PCUE cancers.

Copyright © 2021 The Royal College of Radiologists. Published by Elsevier Ltd. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clon.2021.11.012
PMID: 34872822 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


998. CMAJ. 2021 Dec 6;193(48):E1830-E1835. doi: 10.1503/cmaj.210201.

Changes in health indicator gaps between First Nations and other residents of 
Manitoba.

Katz A(1), Urquia ML(2), Star L(2), Lavoie JG(2), Taylor C(2), Chateau D(2), 
Enns JE(2), Tait MJ(2), Burchill C(2).

Author information:
(1)Manitoba Centre for Health Policy (Katz, Urquia, Taylor, Chateau, Enns, 
Burchill) and Family Medicine (Katz), Departments of Community Health Sciences, 
Rady Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Manitoba; First Nations Health 
and Social Secretariat of Manitoba (Star); Department of Community Health 
Sciences (Lavoie), Ongomiizwin Research, Rady Faculty of Health Sciences, 
University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Man.; Faculty of Humanities & Social Sciences, 
Governance, Law and Management (Tait), Athabasca University, Athabasca, Alta. 
alan.katz@umanitoba.ca.
(2)Manitoba Centre for Health Policy (Katz, Urquia, Taylor, Chateau, Enns, 
Burchill) and Family Medicine (Katz), Departments of Community Health Sciences, 
Rady Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Manitoba; First Nations Health 
and Social Secretariat of Manitoba (Star); Department of Community Health 
Sciences (Lavoie), Ongomiizwin Research, Rady Faculty of Health Sciences, 
University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Man.; Faculty of Humanities & Social Sciences, 
Governance, Law and Management (Tait), Athabasca University, Athabasca, Alta.

BACKGROUND: The Truth and Reconciliation Commission of Canada has called for 
better reporting of health disparities between First Nations people and other 
Canadians to close gaps in health outcomes. We sought to evaluate changes in 
these disparities using indicators of health and health care use over the last 2 
decades.
METHODS: We used linked, whole-population, administrative claims data from the 
Manitoba Centre for Health Policy for fiscal years 1994/95 to 1998/99 and 
2012/13 to 2016/17. We measured indicators of health and health care use among 
registered First Nations and all other Manitobans, and compared differences 
between these groups over the 2 time periods.
RESULTS: Over time, the relative gap between First Nations and all other 
Manitobans widened by 51% (95% confidence interval [CI] 42% to 60%) for 
premature mortality rate. For potential years of life lost, the gap widened by 
54% (95% CI 51% to 57%) among women and by 32% (95% CI 30% to 35%) among men. 
The absolute gap in life expectancy widened by 3.14 years (95% CI 2.92 to 3.36) 
among men and 3.61 years (95% CI 3.38 to 3.84) among women. Relative gaps 
widened by 20% (95% CI 12% to 27%) for ambulatory specialist visits, by 14% (95% 
CI 12% to 16%) for hospital separations and by 50% (95% CI 39% to 62%) for days 
spent in hospital, but narrowed by 33% (95% CI -36% to -30%) for ambulatory 
primary care visits, by 22% (95% CI -27% to -16%) for mammography and by 27% 
(95% CI -40% to -23%) for injury hospitalizations.
INTERPRETATION: Disparities between First Nations and all other Manitobans in 
many key indicators of health and health care use have grown larger over time. 
New approaches are needed to address these disparities and promote better health 
with and for First Nations.

© 2021 CMA Joule Inc. or its licensors.

DOI: 10.1503/cmaj.210201
PMCID: PMC8648361
PMID: 34872954 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: Alan Katz serves on the 
advisory board of the Manitoba Centre for Health Policy in an ex officio 
capacity. No other competing interests were declared.


999. BMJ Open. 2021 Dec 6;11(12):e052156. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2021-052156.

Economic evaluation of an Australian nurse home visiting programme: a randomised 
trial at 3 years.

Bohingamu Mudiyanselage S(1), Price AMH(2)(3)(4), Mensah FK(2)(4), Bryson 
HE(2)(3), Perlen S(2)(3), Orsini F(5)(6), Hiscock H(3), Dakin P(7), Harris D(7), 
Noble K(7), Bruce T(8), Kemp L(8), Goldfeld S(2)(3)(4), Gold L(9).

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Social Development, Deakin University, Burwood, VIC, 
3125, Australia shalika.b@deakin.edu.au.
(2)Population Health, Murdoch Children's Research Institute, Parkville, VIC, 
3052, Australia.
(3)Centre for Community Child Health, The Royal Children's Hospital, Parkville, 
VIC, 3052, Australia.
(4)Department of Paediatrics, The University of Melbourne, Parkville, VIC, 3052, 
Australia.
(5)Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics Unit, Murdoch Children's Research 
Institute, The Royal Children's Hospital, Melbourne, VIC, 3052, Australia.
(6)Melbourne Children's Trials Centre, Murdoch Children's Research Institute, 
The Royal Children's Hospital, Parkville, VIC, 3052, Australia.
(7)Australian Research Alliance for Children and Youth, Canberra City, ACT, 
2601, Australia.
(8)Ingham Institute, Western Sydney University, Penrith, NSW, 2751, Australia.
(9)School of Health and Social Development, Deakin University, Burwood, VIC, 
3125, Australia.

OBJECTIVES: To investigate the additional programme cost and cost-effectiveness 
of 'right@home' Nurse Home Visiting (NHV) programme in relation to improving 
maternal and child outcomes at child age 3 years compared with usual care.
DESIGN: A cost-utility analysis from a government-as-payer perspective alongside 
a randomised trial of NHV over 3-year period. Costs and quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs) were discounted at 5%. Analysis used an intention-to-treat 
approach with multiple imputation.
SETTING: The right@home was implemented from 2013 in Victoria and Tasmania 
states of Australia, as a primary care service for pregnant women, delivered 
until child age 2 years.
PARTICIPANTS: 722 pregnant Australian women experiencing adversity received NHV 
(n=363) or usual care (clinic visits) (n=359).
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY OUTCOME MEASURES: First, a cost-consequences analysis to 
compare the additional costs of NHV over usual care, accounting for any reduced 
costs of service use, and impacts on all maternal and child outcomes assessed at 
3 years. Second, cost-utility analysis from a government-as-payer perspective 
compared additional costs to maternal QALYs to express cost-effectiveness in 
terms of additional cost per additional QALY gained.
RESULTS: When compared with usual care at child age 3 years, the right@home 
intervention cost $A7685 extra per woman (95% CI $A7006 to $A8364) and generated 
0.01 more QALYs (95% CI -0.01 to 0.02). The probability of right@home being 
cost-effective by child age 3 years is less than 20%, at a willingness-to-pay 
threshold of $A50 000 per QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: Benefits of NHV to parenting at 2 years and maternal health and 
well-being at 3 years translate into marginal maternal QALY gains. Like previous 
cost-effectiveness results for NHV programmes, right@home is not cost-effective 
at 3 years. Given the relatively high up-front costs of NHV, long-term follow-up 
is needed to assess the accrual of health and economic benefits over time.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: ISRCTN89962120.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2021. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2021-052156
PMCID: PMC8650480
PMID: 34873002 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The 'right@home' sustained 
nurse home visiting trial is a research collaboration between the Australian 
Research Alliance for Children and Youth (ARACY); the Translational Research and 
Social Innovation (TReSI) Group at Western Sydney University; and the Centre for 
Community Child Health (CCCH), which is a department of The Royal Children's 
Hospital and a research group of Murdoch Children’s Research Institute. 
Ownership of the right@home implementation and support licence, which is 
purchased by Australian state governments for roll out, is shared between 
