Lublin, Lublin, Poland.
(356)Drohobych Ivan Franko State Pedagogical University, Drohobych, Ukraine.
(357)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, University of Gondar, Gondar, 
Faroe Islands.
(358)School of Science and Technology, University of Georgia, Tbilisi, Georgia.
(359)Department of Diagnostic and Interventional Radiology, New Hospitals LTD, 
Tbilisi, Georgia.
(360)Students Scientific Research Center, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, 
Tehran, Iran.
(361)Department of Public Health, Jordan University of Science and Technology, 
Irbid, Jordan.
(362)Department of Biophysics and Biochemistry, Baku State University, Baku, 
Azerbaijan.
(363)Russian Institute for Advanced Study, Moscow State Pedagogical University, 
Moscow, Russia.
(364)Department of Medical Microbiology and Immunology, United Arab Emirates 
University, Al Ain, United Arab Emirates.
(365)Epidemiology Department, Jazan University, Jazan, Saudi Arabia.
(366)Department of Population Science, Jatiya Kabi Kazi Nazrul Islam University, 
Mymensingh, Bangladesh.
(367)Family Medicine Department, United Arab Emirates University, Al Ain, United 
Arab Emirates.
(368)Primary Care Department, NHS North West London, London, England.
(369)Department of Health Policy and Management, Seoul National University, 
Seoul, South Korea.
(370)Institute of Health Policy and Management, Seoul National University, 
Seoul, South Korea.
(371)National Hepatology and Tropical Medicine Research Institute, Cairo 
University, Cairo, Egypt.
(372)Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(373)The Iranian Academy of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(374)Department of Preventive Medicine, Yonsei University, Seoul, South Korea.
(375)School of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Xiamen University Malaysia, Sepang, 
Malaysia.
(376)School of Health Sciences, Kristiania University College, Oslo, Norway.
(377)Department of Global Community Health and Behavioral Sciences, Tulane 
University, New Orleans, Louisiana.
(378)Department of Nursing and Health Promotion, Oslo Metropolitan University, 
Oslo, Norway.
(379)Department of Health Economics and Social Security, Jagiellonian University 
Medical College, Krakow, Poland.
(380)School of Population and Public Health, University of British Columbia, 
Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.
(381)Arthritis Research Canada, Richmond, British Columbia, Canada.
(382)Microbiology & Molecular Cell Biology Department, Eastern Virginia Medical 
School, Norfolk.
(383)Department of Internal and Pulmonary Medicine, Sheri Kashmir Institute of 
Medical Sciences, Srinagar, India.
(384)Kasturba Medical College, Udupi, India.
(385)Biomedical Research Networking Center for Mental Health Network, San Juan 
de Dios Sanitary Park, Sant Boi de Llobregat, Spain.
(386)Catalan Institution for Research and Advanced Studies, Barcelona, Spain.
(387)Faculty of Medicine, Gazi University, Ankara, Turkey.
(388)University of Environment and Sustainable Development, Somanya, Ghana.
(389)Department of Orthopaedics, Medanta Hospital, Lucknow, India.
(390)Faculty of Health and Life Sciences, Coventry University, Coventry, 
England.
(391)Department of Medicine, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.
(392)Department of Pediatric Oncology, Hacettepe University, Ankara, Turkey.
(393)Department of Clinical Sciences and Community Health, University of Milan, 
Milan, Italy.
(394)Department of Community and Family Medicine, University of Baghdad, 
Baghdad, Iraq.
(395)Unit of Genetics and Public Health, Institute of Medical Sciences, Las 
Tablas, Panama.
(396)Ministry of Health, Herrera, Panama.
(397)Institute of Clinical Physiology, National Research Council, Pisa, Italy.
(398)Pattern Recognition and Machine Learning Lab, Gachon University, Seongnam, 
South Korea.
(399)School of Pharmacy, Monash University, Bandar Sunway, Malaysia.
(400)School of Pharmacy, Taylor's University Lakeside Campus, Subang Jaya, 
Malaysia.
(401)Office of Health Policy & Legislative Affairs, University of Texas, 
Galveston.
(402)Graduate School of Public Health, Ajou University, Suwon-si, South Korea.
(403)Asbestos Diseases Research Institute, University of Sydney, Sydney, New 
South Wales, Australia.
(404)Faculty of Science, Universiti Brunei Darussalam, Bandar Seri Begawan, 
Brunei.
(405)Department of Medical Oncology, Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, 
China.
(406)Department of Health Promotion and Health Education, National Taiwan Normal 
University, Taipei, Taiwan.
(407)Lerner Research Institute, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, Ohio.
(408)Department of Quantitative Health Science, Case Western Reserve University, 
Cleveland, Ohio.
(409)Laboratory for Process Engineering, Environment, Biotechnology and Energy, 
University of Porto, Porto, Portugal.
(410)School of Health, Polytechnic Institute of Porto, Portugal.
(411)Department of General Surgery, Liverpool University Hospitals NHS 
Foundation Trust, Liverpool, England.
(412)Department of Surgery, University of Liverpool, Liverpool, England.
(413)Ophthalmology Department, Ministry of Health and Population, Aswan, Egypt.
(414)Department of Primary Care and Public Health, Imperial College London, 
London, England.
(415)Mass Communication Department, University of Sharjah, Sharjah, United Arab 
Emirates.
(416)Department of Ophthalmology, M M Joshi Eye Institute, Hubli, India.
(417)Rabigh Faculty of Medicine, King Abdulaziz University, Jeddah, Saudi 
Arabia.
(418)Faculty of Public Health, Universitas Airlangga, Surabaya, Indonesia.
(419)Indonesian Public Health Association, Surabaya, Indonesia.
(420)Department of Midwifery, Hamadan University of Medical Sciences, Hamadan, 
Iran.
(421)National Centre for Disease Informatics and Research, Indian Council of 
Medical Research, Bengaluru, India.
(422)Department of Health Services Research and Policy, London School of Hygiene 
and Tropical Medicine, London, England.
(423)India Cancer Research Consortium, Indian Council of Medical Research, New 
Delhi, India.
(424)Peru Country Office, United Nations Population Fund, Lima, Peru.
(425)Forensic Medicine Division, Imam Abdulrahman Bin Faisal University, Dammam, 
Saudi Arabia.
(426)Department of Reproductive Health and Population Studies, Bahir Dar 
University, Bahir Dar, Ethiopia.
(427)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Menoufia University Faculty of Medicine, 
Shebin El-Kom, Egypt.
(428)Clinical Microbiology and Parasitology Unit, Polyclinic "Dr. Zora 
Profozic", Zagreb, Croatia.
(429)University Centre Varazdin, University North, Varazdin, Croatia.
(430)School of Public Health and Community Medicine, University of Gothenburg, 
Gothenburg, Sweden.
(431)Center for Innovation in Medical Education, Pomeranian Medical University, 
Szczecin, Poland.
(432)Pomeranian Medical University, Szczecin, Poland.
(433)Department of Propedeutics of Internal Diseases and Arterial Hypertension, 
Pomeranian Medical University, Szczecin, Poland.
(434)Woman-Mother-Child Department, Lausanne University Hospital, Lausanne, 
Switzerland.
(435)Pacific Institute for Research and Evaluation, Calverton, Maryland.
(436)School of Public Health, Curtin University, Perth, Western Australia, 
Australia.
(437)Department of Medical Immunology, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, 
Tehran, Iran.
(438)Department of Surgical Oncology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, 
Jodhpur, India.
(439)Biotechnology Research Center, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, 
Tabriz, Iran.
(440)Molecular Medicine Research Center, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, 
Tabriz, Iran.
(441)Department of Biology, Salahaddin University-Erbil, Erbil, Iraq.
(442)Internal Medicine Department, King Saud University, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
(443)Department of Information Technology, Lebanese French University, Erbil, 
Iraq.
(444)Department of Anatomical Sciences, Zanjan University of Medical Sciences, 
Zanjan, Iran.
(445)Health Systems and Policy Research Unit, Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, 
Nigeria.
(446)Department of Health Care Management, Technical University of Berlin, 
Berlin, Germany.
(447)Oncology Department, Appalachian Regional Healthcare, Hazard, Kentucky.
(448)Internal Medicine, University of Kentucky, Lexington.
(449)Faculty of Life Sciences and Medicine, King's College London, London, 
England.
(450)Clinical Epidemiology and Public Health Research Unit, Burlo Garofolo 
Institute for Maternal and Child Health, Trieste, Italy.
(451)Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Pabna University of Science 
and Technology, Pabna, Bangladesh.
(452)Department of Molecular Medicine, National Institute of Genetic Engineering 
and Biotechnology, Tehran, Iran.
(453)Social Determinants of Health Research Center, Kurdistan University of 
Medical Sciences, Sanandaj, Iran.
(454)Computer, Electrical, and Mathematical Sciences and Engineering Division, 
King Abdullah University of Science and Technology, Thuwal, Saudi Arabia.
(455)University Hospital Center of Porto, University of Porto, Porto, Portugal.
(456)Section of Plastic Surgery, University of Michigan School of Medicine, Ann 
Arbor.
(457)Department of Clinical Biochemistry, Babol University of Medical Sciences, 
Babol, Iran.
(458)Department of Clinical Biochemistry, Tarbiat Modares University, Tehran, 
Iran.
(459)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Wuhan University, Wuhan, 
China.
(460)College of Medicine and Public Health, Flinders University, Adeaide, South 
Australia, Australia.
(461)Research and Analytics Department, Initiative for Financing Health and 
Human Development, Chennai, India.
(462)Department of Research and Analytics, Bioinsilico Technologies, Chennai, 
India.
(463)Department of Nephrology, Manipal Academy of Higher Education, Manipal, 
India.
(464)Department of Education for Clinical Research, National Center for Child 
Health and Development, Tokyo, Japan.
(465)Laboratory of Public Health Indicators Analysis and Health Digitalization, 
Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology, Dolgoprudny, Russia.
(466)Experimental Surgery and Oncology Laboratory, Kursk State Medical 
University, Kursk, Russia.
(467)Suraj Eye Institute, Nagpur, India.
(468)Department of Pharmacy Practice, Imam Abdulrahman Bin Faisal University, 
Dammam, Saudi Arabia.
(469)Discipline of Social and Administrative Pharmacy, University of Science, 
Malaysia, Penang, Malaysia.
(470)Mysore Medical College and Research Institute, Government Medical College, 
Mysore, India.
(471)Department of Disease Control and Environmental Health, Makerere 
University, Kampala, Uganda.
(472)Pharmaceutical Outcomes and Policy Department, University of Florida, 
Gainesville.
(473)Department of General Surgery, Carol Davila University of Medicine and 
Pharmacy, Bucharest, Romania.
(474)Department of General Surgery, Emergency Hospital of Bucharest, Bucharest, 
Romania.
(475)Department of Oncology, Victor Babes University of Medicine and Pharmacy, 
Timisoara, Romania.
(476)Estia Health Blakehurst, Estia Health, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
(477)Institute for Global Health Innovations, Duy Tan University, Hanoi, 
Vietnam.
(478)International Islamic University Islamabad, Islamabad, Pakistan.
(479)South African Medical Research Council, Cape Town, South Africa.
(480)School of Public Health and Family Medicine, University of Cape Town, Cape 
Town, South Africa.
(481)Medical Research Council Clinical Trials Unit, University College London, 
London, England.
(482)Department of Gastroenterology, Cambridge University Hospitals, Cambridge, 
England.
(483)Unit of Microbiology and Public Health, Institute of Medical Sciences, Las 
Tablas, Panama.
(484)Department of Public Health, Ministry of Health, Herrera, Panama.
(485)Center of Excellence in Reproductive Health Innovation, University of 
Benin, Benin City, Nigeria.
(486)Administrative and Economic Sciences Department, University of Bucharest, 
Bucharest, Romania.
(487)Department of International Cyber Education, Mongolian National University 
of Medical Sciences, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia.
(488)Advisory Board, Ministry of Health, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia.
(489)Department of Community Health and Primary Care, University of Lagos, Idi 
Araba, Nigeria.
(490)Department of Family and Preventive Medicine, University of Utah, Salt Lake 
City.
(491)Translational Health Research Institute, Western Sydney University, Sydney, 
New South Wales, Australia.
(492)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioural Neurosciences, McMaster 
University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.
(493)Department of Psychiatry, University of Lagos, Lagos, Nigeria.
(494)Community Prevention and Care Services, National AIDS Control Committee, 
Abuja, Nigeria.
(495)Mass Communication Department, Ajman University, Dubai, United Arab 
Emirates.
(496)Diplomacy and Public Relations Department, University of Human Development, 
Sulaymaniyah, Iraq.
(497)Department of Anatomic Pathology, Ekiti State University, Ado-Ekiti, 
Nigeria.
(498)Department of Anatomic Pathology, Ekiti State University Teaching Hospital, 
Ado-Ekiti, Nigeria.
(499)Noncommunicable Disease Prevention Unit, Ministry of Health, Bandar Seri 
Begawan, Brunei.
(500)Early Detection and Cancer Prevention Services, Pantai Jerudong Specialist 
Centre, Bandar Seri Begawan, Brunei.
(501)Department of Pharmacology and Therapeutics, University of Nigeria Nsukka, 
Enugu, Nigeria.
(502)Section of Sustainable Health, Umeå University, Umea, Sweden.
(503)Health Systems Research Center, National Institute of Public Health, 
Cuernavaca, Mexico.
(504)Department of Project Management, National Research University Higher 
School of Economics, Moscow, Russia.
(505)Department of Medicine, University of Ibadan, Ibadan, Nigeria.
(506)Department of Medicine, University College Hospital, Ibadan, Ibadan, 
Nigeria.
(507)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Jagadguru Sri Shivarathreeswara Academy 
of Health Education and Research, Mysore, India.
(508)Department of Medical Mycology and Parasitology, Shiraz University of 
Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
(509)Department of Health Metrics, Center for Health Outcomes and Evaluation, 
Bucharest, Romania.
(510)Department of Nutrition and Dietetics, Harokopio University, Athens, 
Greece.
(511)Vision and Eye Research Institute, Anglia Ruskin University, Cambridge, 
England.
(512)Institute of Health Services Research, Yonsei University, Seoul, South 
Korea.
(513)Department of Medical Humanities and Social Medicine, Kosin University, 
Busan, South Korea.
(514)Iran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(515)Department of Internal Medicine, Ochsner Medical Center, New Orleans, 
Louisiana.
(516)Department of Epidemiology, Human Genetics and Environmental Sciences, The 
University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston School of Public Health, 
Dallas.
(517)Department of Epidemiology, University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences, 
Little Rock.
(518)Centre of Excellence, Khallikote University, Berhampur, India.
(519)Research Division, Association for Biodiversity Conservation and Research, 
Balasore, India.
(520)Department of Health Policy, Manipal Academy of Higher Education, Manipal, 
India.
(521)Research Section, Nepal Health Research Council, Kathmandu, Nepal.
(522)Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences, Tribhuvan University, Kathmandu, 
Nepal.
(523)Associated Laboratory for Green Chemistry, University of Porto, Porto, 
Portugal.
(524)Department of Chemistry, University of Porto, Porto, Portugal.
(525)Department of Development Studies, International Institute for Population 
Sciences, Mumbai, India.
(526)Basic Medical Sciences Department, Durban University of Technology, Durban, 
South Africa.
(527)Department of Biochemistry and Dietetics, Tabriz University of Medical 
Sciences, Tabriz, Iran.
(528)Urooncology Research Center, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, 
Iran.
(529)Department of Dermatology, College of Medicine and Sagore Dutta Hospital, 
Kolkata, India.
(530)University Medical Center Groningen, University of Groningen, Groningen, 
Netherlands.
(531)School of Economics and Business, University of Groningen, Groningen, 
Netherlands.
(532)Department of Nutrition and Food Sciences, Maragheh University of Medical 
Sciences, Maragheh, Iran.
(533)Dietary Supplements and Probiotic Research Center, Alborz University of 
Medical Sciences, Karaj, Iran.
(534)Department of Biochemistry, Jagadguru Sri Shivarathreeswara University, 
Mysuru, India.
(535)National Institute of Infectious Diseases, Bucuresti, Romania.
(536)Department of Infectious Diseases, Carol Davila University of Medicine and 
Pharmacy, Bucharest, Romania.
(537)Biomedical Engineering Department, Amirkabir University of Technology, 
Tehran, Iran.
(538)Department of Physics, Sharif University of Technology, Tehran, Iran.
(539)College of Medicine, University of Central Florida, Orlando.
(540)Manipal College of Dental Sciences, Manipal Academy of Higher Education, 
Manipal, India.
(541)Department of Medical Oncology, Cancer Institute, Chennai, India.
(542)Department of Medicine, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada.
(543)Metabolomics and Genomics Research Center, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(544)Department of Natural Science, Middlesex University, London, England.
(545)Department of Population Science and Human Resource Development, University 
of Rajshahi, Rajshahi, Bangladesh.
(546)School of Nursing and Healthcare Professions, Federation University 
Australia, Berwick, Victoria, Australia.
(547)School of Nursing and Midwifery, La Trobe University, Melbourne, Victoria, 
Australia.
(548)Future Technology Research Center, National Yunlin University of Science 
and Technology, Yunlin, Taiwan.
(549)Department of Internal Medicine, Harvard University, Boston, Massachusetts.
(550)Department of Surgery, University of Texas Health Science Center at San 
Antonio, San Antonio.
(551)European Office for the Prevention and Control of Noncommunicable Diseases, 
World Health Organization, Moscow, Russia.
(552)Department of Cardiology, Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia.
(553)Health Emergency Operation Center, Ministry of Health and Population, 
Kathmandu, Nepal.
(554)Central Department of Public Health, Institute of Medicine, Kathmandu, 
Nepal.
(555)Department of Pharmacology, University of Colombo, Colombo, Sri Lanka.
(556)Department of Community Medicine, Manipal Academy of Higher Education, 
Manipal, India.
(557)Department of Oral Pathology, Srinivas Institute of Dental Sciences, 
Mangalore, India.
(558)Department of Computer Science, Boston University, Boston, Massachusetts.
(559)Department of Immunology and Laboratory Sciences, Sirjan School of Medical 
Sciences, Sirjan, Iran.
(560)Department of Immunology, Kerman University of Medical Sciences, Kerman, 
Iran.
(561)School of Medicine, Western Sydney University, Campbelltown, New South 
Wales, Australia.
(562)Translational Health Research Institute, Western Sydney University, 
Campbelltown, New South Wales, Australia.
(563)Endocrinology and Metabolism Research Center, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(564)Network of Immunity in Infection, Malignancy and Autoimmunity, Universal 
Scientific Education and Research Network, Tehran, Iran.
(565)Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, Massachusetts.
(566)Deparment of Pharmacology and Toxicology, University of Antioquia, 
Medellin, Colombia.
(567)Department of Global Health and Population, Harvard University, Boston, 
Massachusetts.
(568)Center for Indigenous Health Research, Wuqu' Kawoq Maya Health Alliance, 
Tecpan, Guatemala.
(569)Maurizio Bufalini Hospital, Cesena, Italy.
(570)Golestan Research Center of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Golestan 
University of Medical Sciences, Gorgan, Iran.
(571)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Botswana, Gaborone, 
Botswana.
(572)Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, Jagadguru Sri Shivarathreeswara University, 
Mysore, India.
(573)Sharjah Institute for Medical Research, University of Sharjah, Sharjah, 
United Arab Emirates.
(574)Research and Development, Islamabad Diagnostic Center Pakistan, Islamabad, 
Pakistan.
(575)Biological Production Development, National Institute of Health, Islamabad, 
Pakistan.
(576)Applied Biomedical Research Center, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, 
Mashhad, Iran.
(577)Biotechnology Research Center, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, 
Mashhad, Iran.
(578)Department of Radiology, University of Southern California, Los Angeles.
(579)Public Health and Community Medicine Department, Cairo University, Giza, 
Egypt.
(580)Digestive Diseases Research Institute, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(581)Emergency Department, Brown University, Providence, Rhode Island.
(582)Department of Entomology, Ain Shams University, Cairo, Egypt.
(583)Department of Surgery, Marshall University, Huntington, West Virginia.
(584)Department of Nutrition and Preventive Medicine, Case Western Reserve 
University, Cleveland, Ohio.
(585)Department of Pediatrics, University Hospitals Rainbow Babies & Children's 
Hospital, Cleveland, Ohio.
(586)Department of Pediatrics, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio.
(587)School of Public Health and Health Management, University of Belgrade, 
Belgrade, Serbia.
(588)Division of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, McMaster University, 
Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.
(589)Colorectal Research Center, Iran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, 
Iran.
(590)Faculty of Health & Social Sciences, Bournemouth University, Bournemouth, 
England.
(591)Department of Public Health Sciences, University of North Carolina at 
Charlotte, Charlotte.
(592)Market Access, Bayer, Istanbul, Turkey.
(593)Department of Health Sciences, Federal University of Santa Catarina, 
Araranguá, Brazil.
(594)Department of Medical Statistics, Epidemiology and Medical Informatics, 
University of Zagreb, Zagreb, Croatia.
(595)Department of Epidemiology and Prevention of Chronic Noncommunicable 
Diseases, Croatian Institute of Public Health, Zagreb, Croatia.
(596)National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, National Institutes of Health, 
Rockville, Maryland.
(597)Department of Radiology and Interventional Neuroradiology, Isfahan 
University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
(598)Clinical Research Development Unit of Farshchian Heart Center, Hamedan 
University of Medical Sciences, Hamadan, Iran.
(599)Independent Consultant, Karachi, Pakistan.
(600)Department of Oral Health, Non-Communicable Diseases Research Center, 
Tehran, Iran.
(601)Noncommunicable Diseases Committee, National Institute for Medical Research 
Developmen, Tehran, Iran.
(602)Symbiosis Medical College for Women, Symbiosis International University, 
Pune, India.
(603)University School of Management and Entrepreneurship, Delhi Technological 
University, Delhi, India.
(604)Centre for Medical Informatics, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, 
Scotland.
(605)Division of General Internal Medicine, Harvard University, Boston, 
Massachusetts.
(606)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Manipal Academy of Higher 
Education, Mangalore, India.
(607)Department of Biochemistry, Manipal University College Melaka, Melaka, 
Malaysia.
(608)Department of Forensic Medicine, Manipal Academy of Higher Education, 
Mangalore, India.
(609)University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.
(610)Cancer Research Center, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, 
Iran.
(611)Cancer Biology Research Center, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, 
Tehran, Iran.
(612)Public Health Dentistry Department, Krishna Institute of Medical Sciences, 
Karad, India.
(613)Clinical Immunology and Hematology, Sofiamed University Hospital, Sofia, 
Bulgaria.
(614)Department of Genetics, Sofia University St. Kliment Ohridiski, Sofia, 
Bulgaria.
(615)Department of Health Education and Health Promotion, Kermanshah University 
of Medical Sciences, Kermanshah, Iran.
(616)School of Health, University of Technology Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, 
Australia.
(617)Department of Hematology-Oncology, Baystate Medical Center, Springfield, 
Massachusetts.
(618)Department of Physical Education, Federal University of Santa Catarina, 
Florianópolis, Brazil.
(619)School of Medicine, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham.
(620)Medicine Service Department of Veterans Affairs, Birmingham, Alabama.
(621)Department of Midwifery, Haramaya University, Harar, Ethiopia.
(622)Department No. 16, Moscow Research and Practical Centre on Addictions, 
Moscow, Russia.
(623)Therapeutic Department, Balashiha Central Hospital, Balashikha, Russia.
(624)Asbestos Diseases Research Institute, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
(625)Cochrane Iran Associate Centre, National Institute for Medical Research 
Development, Iranian Ministry of Health and Medical Education, Tehran, Iran.
(626)Department of Radiology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham.
(627)Department of Medicine, Democritus University of Thrace, Alexandroupolis, 
Greece.
(628)Schiller Institute, Boston College, Boston, Massachusetts.
(629)Barcelona Institute for Global Health, Barcelona, Spain.
(630)Nepal Health Research Council, Kathmandu, Nepal.
(631)Department of Community Medicine, Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, Nigeria.
(632)Pediatric Services, King Hussein Cancer Center, Amman, Jordan.
(633)Pediatrics, University of Jordan, Amman, Jordan.
(634)Maternal and Child Health, Projahnmo Research Foundation, Dhaka, 
Bangladesh.
(635)Department of Medical Oncology, The Oncology Institute "Prof Dr Ion 
Chiricuţă" Cluj-Napoca, Cluj-Napoca, Romania.
(636)Department of Medical Oncology, Iuliu Hatieganu University of Medicine and 
Pharmacy, Cluj-Napoca, Romania.
(637)Faculty of Health and Public Administration, Semmelweis University, 
Budapest, Hungary.
(638)Department of Medicine, University of Valencia, Valencia, Spain.
(639)Carlos III Health Institute, Biomedical Research Networking Center for 
Mental Health Network, Madrid, Spain.
(640)Cancer Control Center, Osaka International Cancer Institute, Osaka, Japan.
(641)Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland.
(642)Research Center for Molecular Medicine, Hamadan University of Medical 
Sciences, Hamadan, Iran.
(643)Pathology Department, Alexandria University, Alexandria, Egypt.
(644)Department of Surgery, National University of Singapore, Singapore, 
Singapore.
(645)Department of Pathology, University of Texas, Galveston.
(646)College of Public Health, Medical and Veterinary Sciences, James Cook 
University, Cairns, Queensland, Australia.
(647)University of Gondar, Gondar, Ethiopia.
(648)Department of Clinical Pharmacy, University of Gondar, Gondar, Ethiopia.
(649)Department of Community and Family Medicine, Iran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(650)Pediatric Intensive Care Unit, King Saud University, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
(651)School of Public Health, Mekelle University, Mekelle, Ethiopia.
(652)Southgate Institute for Health and Society, Flinders University, Adelaide, 
South Australia, Australia.
(653)School of Public Health, University of Adelaide, Adelaide, South Australia, 
Australia.
(654)Division of Pediatric Gastroenterology, Case Western Reserve University, 
Cleveland, Ohio.
(655)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Mayo Clinic, Scottsdale, 
Arizona.
(656)Department of Endocrinology, Diabetes and Metabolism, Christian Medical 
College and Hospital, Vellore, India.
(657)HIV/STI Surveillance Research Center and World Health Organization 
Collaborating Center for HIV Surveillance, Kerman University of Medical 
Sciences, Kerman, Iran.
(658)Nutritional Epidemiology Research Team, National Institute for Health and 
Medical Research Institut national de la santé et de la recherche médicale, 
Paris, France.
(659)Department of Health, Medicine and Human Biology, Sorbonne Paris Nord 
University, Bobigny, France.
(660)Department of Pathology and Legal Medicine, University of São Paulo, 
Ribeirão Preto, Brazil.
(661)Modestum LTD, London, England.
(662)Institute for Risk Assessment Sciences, Utrecht University, Utrecht, 
Netherlands.
(663)Department of Health Economics, Hanoi Medical University, Hanoi, Vietnam.
(664)Department of Molecular Medicine and Pathology, University of Auckland, 
Auckland, New Zealand.
(665)Clinical Hematology and Toxicology, Maurice Wilkins Centre, Auckland, New 
Zealand.
(666)School of Public Health and Social Work, Queensland University of 
Technology, Brisbane, Queensland, Australia.
(667)Health Informatics Department, Nursing and Midwifery Faculty, Hanoi Medical 
University, Ha Noi, Vietnam.
(668)Department of Community Medicine, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, 
Nagpur, India.
(669)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Haramaya University, 
Haramaya, Ethiopia.
(670)Department of Allied Health Sciences, Iqra National University, Peshawar, 
Pakistan.
(671)Pakistan Council for Science and Technology, Ministry of Science and 
Technology, Islamabad, Pakistan.
(672)Department of Pediatric Cardiology, Rush University, Chicago, Illinois.
(673)Kasturba Medical College, Manipal Academy of Higher Education, Mangalore, 
India.
(674)Amity Institute of Biotechnology, Amity University Rajasthan, Jaipur, 
India.
(675)Alzahra Teaching Hospital, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, 
Iran.
(676)Women's Reproductive Health Research Center, Tabriz University of Medical 
Sciences, Tabriz, Iran.
(677)Clinical Cancer Research Center, Milad General Hospital, Tehran, Iran.
(678)Department of Microbiology, Islamic Azad University, Tehran, Iran.
(679)Department of Medical and Surgical Sciences and Advanced Technologies, 
University of Catania, Catania, Italy.
(680)Department of Medical and Surgical Sciences, University of Bologna, 
Bologna, Italy.
(681)Occupational Health Unit, Sant'Orsola Malpighi Hospital, Bologna, Italy.
(682)Department of Health Care Administration and Economics, National Research 
University Higher School of Economics, Moscow, Russia.
(683)Faculty of Information Technology, Ho Chi Minh City University of 
Technology, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam.
(684)Department of Neurosurgery, Erasmus University Medical Center, Rotterdam, 
Netherlands.
(685)Center for Experimental Microsurgery, Iuliu Hațieganu University of 
Medicine and Pharmacy, Cluj-Napoca, Romania.
(686)Cultures, Societies and Global Studies, Integrated Initiative for Global 
Health, Northeastern University, Boston, Massachusetts.
(687)School of Public Health, University of Nairobi, Nairobi, Kenya.
(688)College of Medicine and Public Health, Flinders University, Adelaide, South 
Australia, Australia.
(689)Key Laboratory of Shaanxi Province for Craniofacial Precision Medicine 
Research, Stomatological Hospital (College) of Xi'an Jiaotong University, Xi'an, 
China.
(690)Competence Center of Mortality-Follow-Up of the German National Cohort, 
Federal Institute for Population Research, Wiesbaden, Germany.
(691)Institute of Health and Society, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway.
(692)Department of Neurology, Technical University of Munich, Munich, Germany.
(693)Adelaide Medical School, University of Adelaide, Adelaide, South Australia, 
Australia.
(694)Research and Development Division, The George Institute for Global Health, 
New Delhi, India.
(695)Cancer Epidemiology and Prevention Research, Alberta Health Services, 
Calgary, British Columbia, Canada.
(696)Department of Oncology, University of Calgary, Calgary, Alberta, Canada.
(697)School of International Development and Global Studies, University of 
Ottawa, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.
(698)George Institute for Global Health, University of Oxford, Oxford, England.
(699)Department of Pharmacy, Debre Tabor University, Debre Tabor, Ethiopia.
(700)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, University of Gondar, Gondar, 
Ethiopia.
(701)Department of Neuropsychopharmacology, National Center of Neurology and 
Psychiatry, Kodaira, Japan.
(702)Department of Public Health, Juntendo University, Tokyo, Japan.
(703)Department of Health Policy and Management, Jackson State University, 
Jackson, Mississippi.
(704)School of Medicine, Tsinghua University, Beijing, China.
(705)Department of Environmental Health, Mazandaran University of Medical 
Sciences, Sari, Iran.
(706)Cancer Institute, Hacettepe University, Ankara, Turkey.
(707)Department of Clinical Pharmacy and Outcomes Sciences, University of South 
Carolina, Columbia.
(708)Epidemiology and Cancer Registry Sector, Institute of Oncology Ljubljana, 
Ljubljana, Slovenia.
(709)Shahroud University of Medical Sciences, Shahroud, Iran.
(710)Laboratory of Genetics and Genomics, Moscow Research and Practical Centre 
on Addictions, Moscow, Russia.
(711)Addictology Department, Russian Medical Academy of Continuous Professional 
Education, Moscow, Russia.
(712)Pediatrics Department, Russian Medical Academy of Continuous Professional 
Education, Moscow, Russia.
(713)Department of General Practice, University of Melbourne, Melbourne, 
Victoria, Australia.
(714)Victorian Comprehensive Cancer Centre, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
(715)Bone Marrow Transplantation Center, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, China.
(716)Department of Epidemiology, Human Genetics, and Environmental Sciences, 
University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston, Houston.
(717)Departamento de Saúde Coletiva, Brasília University, Brasilia, Brazil.
(718)Division of Hematology, University of Washington, Seattle.
(719)Division of Pediatric Hematology-Oncology, University of Washington, 
Seattle.

IMPORTANCE: The Global Burden of Diseases, Injuries, and Risk Factors Study 2019 
(GBD 2019) provided systematic estimates of incidence, morbidity, and mortality 
to inform local and international efforts toward reducing cancer burden.
OBJECTIVE: To estimate cancer burden and trends globally for 204 countries and 
territories and by Sociodemographic Index (SDI) quintiles from 2010 to 2019.
EVIDENCE REVIEW: The GBD 2019 estimation methods were used to describe cancer 
incidence, mortality, years lived with disability, years of life lost, and 
disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) in 2019 and over the past decade. 
Estimates are also provided by quintiles of the SDI, a composite measure of 
educational attainment, income per capita, and total fertility rate for those 
younger than 25 years. Estimates include 95% uncertainty intervals (UIs).
FINDINGS: In 2019, there were an estimated 23.6 million (95% UI, 22.2-24.9 
million) new cancer cases (17.2 million when excluding nonmelanoma skin cancer) 
and 10.0 million (95% UI, 9.36-10.6 million) cancer deaths globally, with an 
estimated 250 million (235-264 million) DALYs due to cancer. Since 2010, these 
represented a 26.3% (95% UI, 20.3%-32.3%) increase in new cases, a 20.9% (95% 
UI, 14.2%-27.6%) increase in deaths, and a 16.0% (95% UI, 9.3%-22.8%) increase 
in DALYs. Among 22 groups of diseases and injuries in the GBD 2019 study, cancer 
was second only to cardiovascular diseases for the number of deaths, years of 
life lost, and DALYs globally in 2019. Cancer burden differed across SDI 
quintiles. The proportion of years lived with disability that contributed to 
DALYs increased with SDI, ranging from 1.4% (1.1%-1.8%) in the low SDI quintile 
to 5.7% (4.2%-7.1%) in the high SDI quintile. While the high SDI quintile had 
the highest number of new cases in 2019, the middle SDI quintile had the highest 
number of cancer deaths and DALYs. From 2010 to 2019, the largest percentage 
increase in the numbers of cases and deaths occurred in the low and low-middle 
SDI quintiles.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: The results of this systematic analysis suggest that 
the global burden of cancer is substantial and growing, with burden differing by 
SDI. These results provide comprehensive and comparable estimates that can 
potentially inform efforts toward equitable cancer control around the world.

DOI: 10.1001/jamaoncol.2021.6987
PMCID: PMC8719276
PMID: 34967848 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: Dr Kocarnik 
reported grants from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and American Lebanese 
Syrian Associated Charities as well as nonfinancial support from the Institute 
for Health Metrics and Evaluation during the conduct of the study. Drs Lu, Xu, 
Bisignano, Compton, Dean, Fu, Mohammed, and Henrikson reported grants from the 
Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation during the conduct of the study. Dr Ancuceanu 
reported personal fees and nonfinancial support from AbbVie; personal fees from 
Sandoz and B. Braun; and consulting/speaking fees from UCB, Sandoz, AbbVie, 
Zentiva, Teva, Laropharm, CEGEDIM, Angelini, B. Braun, Biessen Pharma, Hofigal, 
AstraZeneca, and Stada. Dr Atorkey received research support from Hunter Medical 
Research Research Institute. Dr Bhaskar reported grants from the NSW Ministry of 
Health NSW Brain Clot Bank outside the submitted work and serving on the board 
of directors for the Rotary Club of Sydney and International Rotary Fellowship 
of Healthcare Professionals. Dr Conde reported being a cofounder of and 
shareholder in TargTex S.A. Dr Dai reported grants from the Bill & Melinda Gates 
Foundation and Bloomberg Philanthropies. Dr Filip reported financial support 
from Avicenna Medical and Clinical Research Institute. Dr Ghith reported grants 
from NovoNordisk Foundation outside the submitted work. Dr Haro reported 
research support from Eli Lilly and Co. Dr J. Islam reported grants from the 
American Society of Clinical Oncology outside the submitted work. Dr S. Islam 
reported grants from NHMRC Emerging Leadership Fellowship and the National Heart 
Foundation of Australia Fellowship and Vanguard Grant outside the submitted 
work. Dr Ismail reported being a council member of the Malaysian Academy of 
Pharmacy. Dr Katikireddi reported grants from the Medical Research Council and 
the Scottish government Chief Scientist Office during the conduct of the study 
as well as being a member of the steering group for Obesity Action Scotland. Dr 
Kauppila reported grants from the Finnish Cancer Foundation, Sigrid Juselius 
Foundation, and Päivikki and Sakari Sohlberg Foundation outside the submitted 
work. Dr Loureiro reported grants from FCT Scientific and Norte Portugal 
Regional Operational Programme through the European Regional Development Fund 
outside the submitted work. Dr Moni reported grants from the University of 
Queensland during the conduct of the study. Dr Radfar reported financial support 
from Avicenna Medical and the Clinical Research Institute. Dr Rakovac reported 
grants from the World Health Organization during the conduct of the study. Dr 
Saylan reported being an employee of Bayer. Dr Sekerija reported personal fees 
from Roche and Johnson & Johnson outside the submitted work. Dr Sheikh reported 
grants from Health Data Research UK outside the submitted work. Dr Singh 
reported consulting fees from Crealta/Horizon, Navigant, Spherix, MedIQ, Jupiter 
Life Science, UBM LLC, Trio Health, Medscape, WebMD, Practice Point, National 
Institutes of Health, American College of Rheumatology, Medisys, Fidia, PK Med, 
Adept Field Solutions, Two Labs Inc, Clinical Care Options, Clearview Healthcare 
Partners, Putnam Associates, and Focus Forward; stock options in TPT Global 
Tech, Vaxart, Atyu, Adaptimmune Therapeutics, GeoVax Labs, Pieris 
Pharmaceuticals, and Charlotte’s Web Holdings, Inc; nonfinancial support from 
Outcomes Measures in Rheumatology; service on the US Food and Drug 
Administration arthritis advisory committee, American College of Rheumatology's 
annual meeting planning committee and quality of care committees and as chair of 
the Veterans Affairs Rheumatology Field Advisory Committee and American College 
of Rheumatology Meet-the-Professor, Workshop and Study Group subcommittee and 
Criteria and Response Criteria subcommittee (cochair); and being the editor and 
director of the University of Alabama at Birmingham Cochrane Musculoskeletal 
Group Satellite Center on Network Meta-analysis. Dr Zhu reported grants from the 
UTHealth Innovation for Cancer Prevention Research Training Program Predoctoral 
Fellowship. Dr Force reported grants from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation 
and St. Baldrick’s Foundation, financial support from the National Institutes of 
Health Loan Repayment Award, and research support from the American Lebanese 
Syrian Associated Charities. Dr Aujayeb reports grants, honoraria, and personal 
fees from Rocket Medical PLC outside the submitted work. Dr Ausloos reports 
grants from the Romanian National Authority for Scientific Research and 
Innovation outside the submitted work. Dr Bärnighausen reports grants from the 
European Union, German Research Foundation, National Institutes of Health, 
German Ministry of Education and Research, Alexander von Humboldt Foundation, 
Else-Kröner-Fresenius-Foundation, Wellcome Trust, Bill and Melinda Gates 
Foundation, KfW, UNAIDS, and World Health Organization; consulting fees from 
KfW; board participation in the National Institutes of Health’s Healthy Options 
study, German National Committee, EDCTP Evaluation, Global Health Hub Germany, 
and University of Pennsylvania Population Aging Research Center; and service as 
a member of the UNAIDS Evaluation Expert Advisory Committee, National Institutes 
of Health Study Section on Population and Public Health Approaches to HIV/AIDS, 
and the US National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine Committee 
for the Evaluation of Human Resources for Health in the Republic of Rwanda under 
the President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief outside the submitted work. Dr 
Bhagat reports personal fees from Elsevier and Springer outside the submitted 
work. Dr Bleyer reports royalties or licenses from Springer Publishing, Germany; 
consulting fees from Slack Publishing, and expert testimony with Bradley Drendel 
& Jeanney outside the submitted work. Dr Braithwaite reports research support 
from the National Institutes of Health/National Cancer Institute. Dr 
Catalá-López reports board service with the International Agency for Research on 
Cancer outside the submitted work. Dr Chaturvedi reports grants from the 
National Institutes of Health and government of India outside the submitted 
work. Dr Cortés reports research support from the Advanced Center for Chronic 
Diseases and Centro de Desarrollo Urbano Sustentable (Agencia Nacional de 
Investigación y Desarrollo Chile. Dr Driscoll reports expert testimony in 2019 
and board membership with the Expert Advisory Group of the Australian 
Mesothelioma Registry outside the submitted work. Dr El-Jaafary reports service 
on the steering committee of the Movement Disorder Society Young Members group. 
Dr Grosso reports research support from the University of Catania Osservatorio 
Epidemiologico Regionale and University of Catania and grants from the Italian 
Ministry of Health outside the submitted work. Dr Guha reports grants from the 
the American Heart Association. Dr Gunasekera reports service as an assistant 
secretary for Sri Lanka College of Oncology outside the submitted work. Dr Gupta 
reports grants from the National Health and Medical Research Council, Australia 
outside the submitted work. Dr Haider reports research support from Ohio 
University and board service for the American Public Health Association outside 
the submitted work. Dr Herteliu reports grants from the Romanian National 
Authority for Scientific Research and Innovation and Ministry of Labour and 
Social Justice, Romania outside the submitted work. Dr Hugo reports research 
support from CAPES Higher Education Improvement Coordination Brazil. Dr Kahrizi 
reports research support, grants, royalties/licenses, consulting fees, 
honoraria, expert testimony, patents (planned, issued, or pending), board 
service, and stock and stock options from Razi University outside the submitted 
work. Dr G. Khan reports membership with the UAE Ministry of Health National 
Immunization Task Advisory Group. Dr Koul reports research support from Sheri 
Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences. Dr La Vecchia reports grants or contracts 
from Associazione Italiana per la Ricerca sul Cancro outside the submitted work. 
Dr Miller reports grants from AB InBev Foundation outside the submitted work. Dr 
Odukoya reports grants from the National Institutes of Health. Dr Pana reports 
grants from the Romanian National Authority for Scientific Research and 
Innovation outside the submitted word. Dr Panagiotakos reports research support 
from the Hellenic Cardiology Society and Hellenic Atherosclerosis Society. Dr 
Sanabria reports research support from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, 
patents with their institution and board service for the Department and Surgical 
Services Lines outside the submitted work. Dr Silva reports research support 
from Coordenação de Aperfeiçoamento de Pessoal de Nível Superior–Brasil and 
CNPq. Dr Straif reports board service with the Collegium Ramazzini and ISEE 
Europe Chapter as an elected member and nonfinancial support from the 
International Agency for Research on Cancer outside the submitted work. Dr 
Volovici reports personal fees from JAMA Network Open. Dr Yazie reports research 
support from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, American Lebanese Syrian 
Associated Charities, and St. Baldrick’s Foundation. Dr Younis reports research 
support from Jackson State University. No other disclosures were reported.


310. Epilepsia. 2022 Mar;63(3):641-651. doi: 10.1111/epi.17158. Epub 2021 Dec 30.

Economic evaluation of deep brain stimulation compared with vagus nerve 
stimulation and usual care for patients with refractory epilepsy: A lifetime 
decision analytic model.

Chan HY(1), Wijnen BFM(2)(3), Majoie MHJM(4)(5)(6)(7), Evers SMAA(1)(2), 
Hiligsmann M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Services Research, Care and Public Health Research 
Institute, Maastricht University, Maastricht, the Netherlands.
(2)Center for Economic Evaluation and Machine Learning, Trimbos Institute, 
Netherlands Institute of Mental Health and Addiction, Utrecht, the Netherlands.
(3)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Medical Technology Assessment, 
Maastricht University Medical Center, Maastricht, the Netherlands.
(4)Department of Research and Development, Epilepsy Center Kempenhaeghe, Heeze, 
the Netherlands.
(5)Department of Psychiatry and Neuropsychology, School for Mental Health and 
Neuroscience, Maastricht University Medical Center, Maastricht, the Netherlands.
(6)School of Health Professions Education, Faculty of Health, Medicine, and Life 
Sciences, Maastricht University, Maastricht, the Netherlands.
(7)Department of Neurology, Academic Center for Epileptology, Epilepsy Center 
Kempenhaeghe and Maastricht University Medical Center, Maastricht, the 
Netherlands.

OBJECTIVES: This study was undertaken to estimate the cost-effectiveness of deep 
brain stimulation (DBS) compared with vagus nerve stimulation (VNS) and care as 
usual (CAU) for adult patients with refractory epilepsy from a health care 
perspective using a lifetime decision analytic model.
METHODS: A Markov decision analytic model was constructed to estimate the 
lifetime cost-effectiveness of DBS compared with VNS and CAU. Transition 
probabilities were estimated from a randomized controlled trial, and assumptions 
were made in consensus with an expert panel. Primary outcomes were expressed as 
incremental costs per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) and per responder. 
Univariate and probabilistic sensitivity analyses were conducted to characterize 
parameter uncertainty.
RESULTS: In DBS, 28.4% of the patients were responders, with an average of 21.38 
QALYs per patient and expected lifetime health care costs of €187 791. VNS had 
fewer responders (22.3%), fewer QALYs (20.70), and lower lifetime costs 
(€156 871). CAU had the fewest responders (6.2%), fewest QALYs (18.74), and 
lowest total health care costs (€64 670). When comparing with CAU, incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) showed that costs per QALY gained were 
slightly lower for DBS (€46 640) than for VNS (€47 155). When comparing DBS with 
VNS, an incremental cost per additional QALY gained of €45 170 was found for 
DBS. Sensitivity analyses showed that ICERs were heavily dependent on 
assumptions regarding loss to follow-up in the respective clinical trial.
SIGNIFICANCE: This study suggests that, given current limited evidence, VNS and 
DBS are potentially cost-effective treatment strategies compared to CAU for 
patients with refractory epilepsy. However, results for DBS were heavily 
impacted by assumptions made to extrapolate nonresponse from the original trial. 
More stringent assumptions regarding nonresponse resulted in an ICER just above 
an acceptable willingness to pay threshold. Given the uncertainty surrounding 
the effectiveness of DBS and the large impact of assumptions related to 
nonresponse, further empirical research is needed to reduce uncertainty.

© 2021 The Authors. Epilepsia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of 
International League Against Epilepsy.

DOI: 10.1111/epi.17158
PMCID: PMC9306584
PMID: 34967942 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None of the authors has any conflict of interest 
to disclose. We confirm that we have read the Journal's position on issues 
involved in ethical publication and affirm that this report is consistent with 
those guidelines.


311. Nurs Rep. 2021 Mar 4;11(1):152-163. doi: 10.3390/nursrep11010015.

Capturing the Unsaid: Nurses' Experiences of Identifying Mental Ill-Health in 
Older Men in Primary Care-A Qualitative Study of Narratives.

Karlsson J(1), Hammar LM(2)(3)(4), Kerstis B(2).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Psychiatry Research, Department of Clinical Neuroscience, 
Karolinska Institute, Stockholm Health Care Services, SE 113 64 Stockholm, 
Sweden.
(2)School of Health, Care and Social Welfare, Malardalen University, SE-722 18 
Vasteras, Sweden.
(3)School of Education, Health and Social Studies, Dalarna University, SE-791 31 
Falun, Sweden.
(4)Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences and Society, Karolinska Institute, 
SE-141 83 Huddinge, Sweden.

This study describes nurses' experiences in identifying mental ill-health in 
older men in primary care. The aging population is growing in Sweden and life 
expectancy is increasing. Age is a risk factor for mental ill-health. Older men 
are over-represented in deaths from suicide. When older men seek primary care, 
it is often because of somatic symptoms and rarely for mental health issues. A 
questionnaire with five open questions was answered by 39 nurses from 10 primary 
care centres and subjected to inductive qualitative content analysis. The 
results revealed a main theme-capturing the unsaid-and two categories: (1) 
feeling secure in the role, with three subcategories (building trust, daring to 
ask and interpreting signs); and (2) the need for resources, with two 
subcategories (time and continuity, and finding support in collaboration). The 
results confirm that nurses in primary care play a key role in identifying 
mental ill-health in older men. There is a need for resources in the form of 
time, competence and collaboration with other professionals and patients' 
relatives. This strategy will establish best practice and provide evidence-based 
care to facilitate improvements in older men's mental health and prevent 
suicide.

DOI: 10.3390/nursrep11010015
PMCID: PMC8608066
PMID: 34968320

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


312. Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2022 Oct;20(10):2337-2346.e3. doi: 
10.1016/j.cgh.2021.12.030. Epub 2021 Dec 27.

Upadacitinib Was Efficacious and Well-tolerated Over 30 Months in Patients With 
Crohn's Disease in the CELEST Extension Study.

D'Haens G(1), Panés J(2), Louis E(3), Lacerda A(4), Zhou Q(5), Liu J(6), Loftus 
EV Jr(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Amsterdam University Medical 
Centers, Amsterdam, Netherlands. Electronic address: g.dhaens@amsterdamumc.nl.
(2)Inflammatory Bowel Diseases Unit, Hospital Clínic Barcelona, IDIBAPS, 
CIBERehd, Barcelona, Spain.
(3)Department of Gastroenterology, University Hospital CHU of Liège, Liège, 
Belgium.
(4)Global Pharmaceutical Research and Development, AbbVie Inc, North Chicago, 
Illinois.
(5)Data and Statistical Sciences, AbbVie Inc, North Chicago, Illinois.
(6)Pharmacovigilance and Patient Safety, AbbVie Inc, North Chicago, Ilinois.
(7)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Mayo Clinic College of Medicine, 
Rochester, Minnesota.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: The long-term efficacy and safety of upadacitinib was 
evaluated in an open-label extension (OLE) of a phase II, double-blind, 
randomized trial of patients with Crohn's disease.
METHODS: Patients who completed the 52-week study (CELEST) received upadacitinib 
in the CELEST OLE as follows: those who had received immediate-release 
upadacitinib 3, 6, or 12 mg twice daily or 24 mg once daily (QD) received 
extended-release upadacitinib 15 mg QD and those who had received 
immediate-release upadacitinib 12 or 24 mg twice daily as rescue therapy 
received extended-release upadacitinib 30 mg QD. If any patient initiating 
upadacitinib 15 mg QD in CELEST OLE lost response at or after week 4, the dose 
was escalated to upadacitinib 30 mg QD (dose-escalated group). Clinical, 
endoscopic, inflammatory and quality-of-life measures were assessed.
RESULTS: A total of 107 CELEST study completers entered CELEST OLE. The 
proportion of patients with clinical remission 2.8/1.0 was maintained between 
week 0 and month 30 in all groups (month 30: 15 mg, 61%; 30 mg, 54%; 
dose-escalation, 55%). Endoscopic response was maintained in all groups (month 
24: 68%, 67%, and 40%, respectively). The rates of adverse events (AEs), serious 
AEs, AEs leading to discontinuation, infections, serious infections, herpes 
zoster, and creatine phosphokinase elevation were higher with upadacitinib 30 mg 
vs 15 mg.
CONCLUSION: Sustained long-term benefit at 30 months and further endoscopic 
improvements to month 24 were observed in patients with Crohn's disease 
receiving upadacitinib. Safety over 30 months was consistent with the known 
safety profile of upadacitinib.
CLINICALTRIALS: gov ID no: NCT02782663.

Copyright © 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cgh.2021.12.030
PMID: 34968730 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


313. Mol Plant. 2022 Apr 4;15(4):620-629. doi: 10.1016/j.molp.2021.12.018. Epub
2021  Dec 28.

STI PCR: An efficient method for amplification and de novo synthesis of long DNA 
sequences.

Zhao Z(1), Xie X(1), Liu W(1), Huang J(1), Tan J(1), Yu H(1), Zong W(1), Tang 
J(1), Zhao Y(1), Xue Y(1), Chu Z(1), Chen L(2), Liu YG(3).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory for Conservation and Utilization of Subtropical 
Agro-Bioresources, College of Life Sciences, South China Agricultural 
University, Guangzhou 510642, China; Guangdong Laboratory for Lingnan Modern 
Agriculture, Guangzhou 510642, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory for Conservation and Utilization of Subtropical 
Agro-Bioresources, College of Life Sciences, South China Agricultural 
University, Guangzhou 510642, China; Guangdong Laboratory for Lingnan Modern 
Agriculture, Guangzhou 510642, China. Electronic address: lotichen@scau.edu.cn.
(3)State Key Laboratory for Conservation and Utilization of Subtropical 
Agro-Bioresources, College of Life Sciences, South China Agricultural 
University, Guangzhou 510642, China; Guangdong Laboratory for Lingnan Modern 
Agriculture, Guangzhou 510642, China. Electronic address: ygliu@scau.edu.cn.

Despite continuous improvements, it is difficult to efficiently amplify large 
sequences from complex templates using current PCR methods. Here, we developed a 
suppression thermo-interlaced (STI) PCR method for the efficient and specific 
amplification of long DNA sequences from genomes and synthetic DNA pools. This 
method uses site-specific primers containing a common 5' tag to generate a 
stem-loop structure, thereby repressing the amplification of smaller 
non-specific products through PCR suppression (PS). However, large target 
products are less affected by PS and show enhanced amplification when the 
competitive amplification of non-specific products is suppressed. Furthermore, 
this method uses nested thermo-interlaced cycling with varied temperatures to 
optimize strand extension of long sequences with an uneven GC distribution. The 
combination of these two factors in STI PCR produces a multiplier effect, 
markedly increasing specificity and amplification capacity. We also developed a 
webtool, calGC, for analyzing the GC distribution of target DNA sequences and 
selecting suitable thermo-cycling programs for STI PCR. Using this method, we 
stably amplified very long genomic fragments (up to 38 kb) from plants and 
human and greatly increased the length of de novo DNA synthesis, which has many 
applications such as cloning, expression, and targeted genomic sequencing. Our 
method greatly extends PCR capacity and has great potential for use in 
biological fields.

Copyright © 2021 The Author. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.molp.2021.12.018
PMID: 34968732 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


