Li M(1), Huang Q(1), Zhang W(1), Cao Y(1), Wang Z(1), Zhao Z(2), Zhang X(1), 
Zhang J(1).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Cell Proliferation and Regulation Biology, Ministry of 
Education, Department of Biology, College of Life Sciences, Beijing Normal 
University, Beijing, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Analytical Chemistry for Living Biosystems, Institute of 
Chemistry, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China.

The fatty acid synthase type II (FAS-II) multienzyme system is the main target 
of drugs to inhibit mycolic acid synthesis in mycobacterium. Meromycolate 
extension acyl carrier protein (AcpM) serves as the carrier of fatty acyl chain 
shuttling among the individual FAS-II components during the progression of fatty 
acid elongation. In this paper, MSMEG_5634 in Mycobacterium smegmatis was 
determined to be a helix-grip structure protein with a deep hydrophobic pocket, 
preferring to form a complex with acyl-AcpM containing a fatty acyl chain at the 
C36-52 length, which is the medium product of FAS-II. MSMEG_5634 interacted with 
FAS-II components and presented relative accumulation at the cellular pole. By 
forming the MSMEG_5634/acyl-AcpM complex, which is free from FAS-II, MSMEG_5634 
could transport acyl-AcpM away from FAS-II. Deletion of the MSMEG_5634 gene in 
M. smegmatis resulted in a mutant with decreased sensitivity to isoniazid and 
triclosan, two inhibitors of the FAS-II system. The isoniazid and triclosan 
sensitivity of this mutant could be restored by the ectopic expression of 
MSMEG_5634 or Rv0910, the MSMEG_5634 homologous protein in Mycobacterium 
tuberculosis H37Rv. These results suggest that MSMEG_5634 and its homologous 
proteins, forming a novel acyl-AcpM-binding protein family in mycobacterium, 
confer intrinsic sensitivity to FAS-II inhibitors.

Copyright © 2022 Li, Huang, Zhang, Cao, Wang, Zhao, Zhang and Zhang.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2022.846722
PMCID: PMC9014085
PMID: 35444621

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


945. Front Cardiovasc Med. 2022 Apr 4;9:851016. doi: 10.3389/fcvm.2022.851016. 
eCollection 2022.

Pre-operative Considerations in Adult Mucopolysaccharidosis Patients Planned for 
Cardiac Intervention.

Cross B(1), Stepien KM(2), Gadepalli C(3), Kharabish A(4)(5), Woolfson P(6), Tol 
G(7), Jenkins P(1).

Author information:
(1)Adult Congenital Heart Disease Department, Liverpool Heart and Chest 
Hospital, Liverpool, United Kingdom.
(2)Adult Inherited Metabolic Diseases Department, Salford Royal NHS Foundation 
Trust, Salford, United Kingdom.
(3)Ear Nose and Throat Department, Salford Royal NHS Foundation Trust, Salford, 
United Kingdom.
(4)Radiology Department, Liverpool Heart and Chest Hospital, Liverpool, United 
Kingdom.
(5)Radiology Department, Cairo University, Giza, Egypt.
(6)Cardiology Department, Salford Royal NHS Foundation Trust, Salford, United 
Kingdom.
(7)Anaesthetics Department, Salford Royal NHS Foundation Trust, Salford, United 
Kingdom.

Mucopolysaccharidoses (MPS) are rare lysosomal storage diseases characterized by 
multiorgan involvement and shortened longevity. Due to advances in therapies 
such as enzyme replacement therapy and haematopoietic stem cell therapy, life 
expectancy has increased posing newer challenges to patients and health 
professionals. One such challenge is cardiovascular manifestations of MPS, which 
can be life limiting and cause reduction in quality of life. Any cardiovascular 
intervention mandates comprehensive, multi-systemic work-up by specialist teams 
to optimize outcome. We highlight the importance of multidisciplinary evaluation 
of adult MPS patients requiring cardiovascular intervention. Clinical 
assessments and investigations are discussed, with a focus on the cardiac, 
anesthetic, airway, respiratory, radiological and psychosocial factors.

Copyright © 2022 Cross, Stepien, Gadepalli, Kharabish, Woolfson, Tol and 
Jenkins.

DOI: 10.3389/fcvm.2022.851016
PMCID: PMC9013828
PMID: 35445089

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


946. JAMA Health Forum. 2022 Apr;3(4):e220401. doi: 
10.1001/jamahealthforum.2022.0401. Epub 2022 Apr 8.

Educational Attainment and Lifestyle Risk Factors Associated With All-Cause 
Mortality in the US.

Puka K(1), Buckley C(1), Mulia N(1), Lasserre AM(1), Rehm J(1), Probst C(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Mental Health Policy Research, Centre for Addiction and Mental 
Health, Toronto, Ontario, Canada (Puka, Lasserre, Rehm, Probst); Campbell Family 
Mental Health Research Institute, Centre for Addiction and Mental Health, 
Toronto, Ontario, Canada (Puka, Rehm, Probst); Department of Automatic Control 
and Systems Engineering, University of Sheffield, Sheffield, United Kingdom 
(Buckley); Alcohol Research Group, Public Health Institute, Emeryville, 
California (Mulia); Institute of Clinical Psychology and Psychotherapy, 
Technische Universität Dresden, Dresden, Germany (Rehm); Center for 
Interdisciplinary Addiction Research, Department of Psychiatry and 
Psychotherapy, University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg, Germany 
(Rehm); Program on Substance Abuse and World Health Organization Collaborating 
Centres, Public Health Agency of Catalonia, Barcelona, Spain (Rehm); Dalla Lana 
School of Public Health and Department of Psychiatry, University of Toronto, 
Toronto, Ontario, Canada (Rehm); I. M. Sechenov First Moscow State Medical 
University (Sechenov University), Moscow, Russian Federation (Rehm); Department 
of Psychiatry, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada (Rehm, Probst); 
Heidelberg Institute of Global Health, Medical Faculty and University Hospital, 
Heidelberg University, Heidelberg, Germany (Probst).

Comment in
    JAMA Health Forum. 2022 Apr 1;3(4):e220190.

IMPORTANCE: The US has experienced increasing socioeconomic inequalities and 
stagnating life expectancy. Past studies have not disentangled 2 mechanisms 
thought to underlie socioeconomic inequalities in health, differential exposure 
and differential vulnerability, that have different policy implications.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the extent to which the association between socioeconomic 
status (SES) and all-cause mortality can be decomposed into a direct effect of 
SES, indirect effects through lifestyle factors (differential exposure), and 
joint effects of SES with lifestyle factors (differential vulnerability).
DESIGN SETTING AND PARTICIPANTS: This nationwide, population-based cohort study 
used the cross-sectional US National Health Interview Survey linked to the 
National Death Index. Civilian, noninstitutionalized US adults aged 25 to 84 
years were included from the 1997 to 2014 National Health Interview Survey and 
were followed up until December 31, 2015. Data were analyzed from May 1 to 
October 31, 2021. A causal mediation model using an additive hazard and marginal 
structural approach was used.
EXPOSURES: Both SES (operationalized as educational attainment) and lifestyle 
risk factors (smoking, alcohol use, obesity, and physical inactivity) were 
assessed using self-reported questionnaires.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Time to all-cause mortality.
RESULTS: Participants included 415 764 adults (mean [SD] age, 49.4 [15.8] years; 
55% women; 64% non-Hispanic White), of whom 45% had low educational attainment 
and 27% had high educational attainment. Participants were followed up for a 
mean (SD) of 8.8 (5.2) years during which 49 096 deaths (12%) were observed. Low 
educational attainment (compared with high) was associated with 83.6 (men; 95% 
CI, 81.8-85.5) and 54.8 (women; 95% CI, 53.4-56.2) additional deaths per 10 000 
person-years, of which 66% (men) and 80% (women) were explained by lifestyle 
factors. Inequalities in mortality were primarily a result of greater exposure 
and clustering of unhealthy lifestyle factors among low SES groups; with some 
exceptions among women, little evidence of differential vulnerability was 
identified.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: In this cohort study, differential exposure to 
lifestyle risk factors was an important mediator of socioeconomic inequalities 
in mortality. Public health interventions are needed, particularly among low SES 
groups, to address smoking, physical inactivity, alcohol use, and the 
socioenvironmental contexts within which these risk factors develop.

DOI: 10.1001/jamahealthforum.2022.0401
PMCID: PMC8994133
PMID: 35445213 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: Dr Lasserre 
reported receiving grants from Swiss National Science Foundation during the 
conduct of the study. Dr Rehm reported receiving grants from National Institute 
on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism and the Centre for Addiction and Mental Health 
during the conduct of the study and grants from the National Institute on 
Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism of the National Institutes of Health, Centre for 
Addiction and Mental Health, and the European Union outside the submitted work. 
Dr Probst reported receiving grants from National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and 
Alcoholism during the conduct of the study. No other disclosures were reported.


947. Epilepsia Open. 2022 Sep;7(3):393-405. doi: 10.1002/epi4.12602. Epub 2022
May 6.

Long-term open-label perampanel: Generalized tonic-clonic seizures in idiopathic 
generalized epilepsy.

French JA(1), Wechsler RT(2), Trinka E(3)(4)(5)(6), Brandt C(7), O'Brien TJ(8), 
Patten A(9), Salah A(10), Malhotra M(11).

Author information:
(1)NYU Grossman School of Medicine, New York, New York, USA.
(2)Idaho Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, Boise, Idaho, USA.
(3)Department of Neurology, Member of the European Reference Network EpiCare, 
Centre for Cognitive Neuroscience, Christian Doppler University Hospital, 
Pracelsus Medical University, Salzburg, Austria.
(4)Neuroscience Institute, Christian Doppler Medical Centre, Paracelsus Medical 
University and Centre for Cognitive Neuroscience, Salzburg, Austria.
(5)Karl Landsteiner Institute for Neurorehabilitation and Space Neurology, 
Salzburg, Austria.
(6)Department of Public Health, UMIT-University for Health Sciences, Medical 
Informatics and Technology, Hall in Tirol, Austria.
(7)Bethel Epilepsy Center, University Hospital for Epileptology, Bielefeld, 
Germany.
(8)The Royal Melbourne Hospital, The University of Melbourne, Parkville, 
Australia.
(9)Eisai Europe Ltd., Hertfordshire, UK.
(10)Formerly: Eisai Inc., Nutley, New Jersey, USA.
(11)Eisai Inc., Nutley, New Jersey, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Assess the longer-term efficacy and safety of adjunctive perampanel 
(up to 12 mg/day) in patients aged ≥12 years with generalized tonic-clonic (GTC) 
seizures from the Open-label Extension (OLEx) Phase of Study 332 to determine 
whether responses obtained during the Core Study are maintained during long-term 
treatment.
METHODS: Patients with GTC seizures previously enrolled in a randomized 
placebo-controlled trial of perampanel could enter an OLEx Phase comprising 
6-week blinded conversion (during which patients previously randomized to 
placebo-switched to perampanel) and up to 136-week maintenance periods (maximum 
perampanel dose of 12 mg/day). A 4-week follow-up period was completed by all 
patients after the last on-treatment visit during the OLEx. We assessed seizure 
frequency outcomes from preperampanel baseline and the Core Study 
Pre-randomization Phase, retention rates, doses selected, and treatment-emergent 
adverse events (TEAEs).
RESULTS: Overall, 138 patients entered the OLEx. Median percent reductions in 
GTC seizures per 28 days from preperampanel were 77% (Weeks 1-13) and 90% (Weeks 
40-52). Retention rates were 88% (6 months) and 75% (12 months). Seizure-freedom 
rates were maintained for at least 2 years regardless of prior treatment 
received during the Core Study. Most common modal daily dose was >4-8 mg/day 
(n = 93). Across the Core and OLEx Phases, 120 (87%) patients experienced TEAEs; 
the most common was dizziness.
SIGNIFICANCE: Perampanel was generally well-tolerated, and the TEAEs reported 
here are consistent with the known safety profile of perampanel. Perampanel 
offers a long-term treatment option for patients (aged ≥12 years) with GTC 
seizures.

© 2022 The Authors. Epilepsia Open published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf 
of International League Against Epilepsy.

DOI: 10.1002/epi4.12602
PMCID: PMC9436298
PMID: 35445567 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: J.A. French receives NYU salary support from the 
Epilepsy Foundation and for consulting work and/or attending scientific advisory 
boards on behalf of the Epilepsy Study Consortium for Aeonian/Aeovian, Anavex, 
Arvelle Therapeutics, Inc., Athenen Therapeutics/Carnot Pharma, Axovant, Biogen, 
BioXcel Therapeutics, Blackfynn, Cerebral Therapeutics, Cerevel, Crossject, 
CuroNZ, Eisai, Encoded Therapeutics, Engage Therapeutics, Epiminder, Epitel, 
Fortress Biotech, Greenwich Biosciences, GW Pharma, Ionis, Janssen 
Pharmaceutica, Knopp Biosciences, Lundbeck, Marinus, Merck, NeuCyte, Inc., 
Neurocrine, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Development, Ovid Therapeutics Inc., Passage 
Bio, Pfizer, Praxis, Redpin, Sage, SK Life Sciences, Stoke, Sunovion, Supernus, 
Takeda, UCB Inc., Xenon, Xeris, and Zogenix. J.A. French has also received 
research grants from Biogen, Cavion, Eisai, Engage, GW Pharma, Lundbeck, 
Neurelis, Ovid, Pfizer, SK Life Sciences, Sunovion, UCB, Xenon, and Zogenix, and 
grants from the Epilepsy Research Foundation, Epilepsy Study Consortium, and 
NINDS. She is on the editorial board of Lancet Neurology and Neurology Today. 
She is Chief Medical/Innovation Officer for the Epilepsy Foundation for which 
NYU receives salary support. She has received travel reimbursement related to 
research, advisory meetings, or presentation of results at scientific meetings 
from the Epilepsy Study Consortium, the Epilepsy Foundation, Arvelle 
Therapeutics, Inc., Biogen, Cerevel, Engage, Lundbeck, NeuCyte, Inc., Otsuka, 
Sage, UCB, Xenon, and Zogenix. R.T. Wechsler has been a clinical trial 
investigator for Aquestive, Biogen, Cavion, Cerevel, Eisai, Engage Pharma, 
Greenwich Biosciences, Lundbeck, Otsuka, Pfizer, SK Life Science, Sunovion, UCB 
Pharma, Xenon, and Zogenix; has served on advisory boards and/or carried out 
consulting work for Brain Sentinel, Cerevel, Engage Pharma, Eisai, Greenwich 
Biosciences, Lundbeck, Otsuka, SK Life Science, Sunovion, and UCB Pharma; has 
received speaker bureau honoraria for Aquestive, Eisai, Greenwich Biosciences, 
LivaNova, SK Life Science, Sunovion, and UCB Pharma; and is a member of the 
Epilepsy Study Consortium. E. Trinka has received personal fees from Arvelle 
Therapeutics, Inc., Bial, Biogen, Böhringer Ingelheim, Eisai, Everpharma, 
GlaxoSmithKline, GW Pharma, LivaNova PLC, Marinus Pharmaceuticals, Inc., 
Medtronic, NewBridge Pharmaceuticals, Novartis, Sandoz, Sanofi, Sunovion 
Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Takeda, and UCB Pharma; grants from Austrian Science. 
Fund (FWF), Bayer, Biogen, Eisai, European Union, GlaxoSmithKline, Novartis, 
Österreichische Nationalbank, Red Bull, and UCB Pharma; other from NeuroConsult 
GmbH.; and has been a trial investigator for Eisai, GlaxoSmithKline, Pfizer, and 
UCB Pharma. C. Brandt has received honoraria for consulting, serving on a 
scientific advisory board, speaking or other activities from Actelion/Idorsia, 
Desitin Pharma, Eisai, GW Pharmaceuticals, Novartis, and UCB Pharma. T.J. 
O'Brien has received research and speaker honoraria from Eisai and UCB Pharma. 
A. Patten is an employee of Eisai Europe Ltd. A. Salah is a former employee of 
Eisai Inc. M. Malhotra is an employee of Eisai Inc.


948. Turk J Haematol. 2022 Aug 25;39(3):152-159. doi: 
10.4274/tjh.galenos.2022.2021.0680. Epub 2022 Apr 21.

Prophylactic Central Nervous System Irradiation Is Not Indispensable in Adult 
Patients with Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia: A Multicenter Retrospective Cohort 
Study.

Çınar OE(1), Göker H(1), Fidan K(2), Aydın Ö(3), Pashayev T(4), Malkan ÜY(1), 
Velet M(1), Büyükaşık Y(1), Aksu S(1), Özcebe Oİ(1), Haznedaroğlu İC(1), 
Sayınalp N(1), Vural F(4), Turgut M(3), Ünal A(2), Demiroğlu H(1).

Author information:
(1)Hacettepe University Faculty of Medicine, Division of Hematology, Ankara, 
Turkey
(2)Erciyes University Faculty of Medicine, Division of Hematology, Kayseri, 
Turkey
(3)Ondokuz Mayıs University Faculty of Medicine, Division of Hematology, Samsun, 
Turkey
(4)Ege University Faculty of Medicine, Division of Hematology, İzmir, Turkey

OBJECTIVE: Studies comparing the efficacy and safety of prophylactic regimens 
for central nervous system (CNS) involvement in acute lymphoblastic leukemia 
(ALL) are scarce in adults. This multicenter retrospective study aimed to 
compare the efficacy of prophylactic regimens with and without CNS irradiation 
on the development of CNS relapse during follow-up.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This was a multicenter comparative cohort study. A total 
of 203 patients were included from four tertiary care centers in Turkey. 
Patients were divided into two groups according to whether they received CNS 
irradiation or not. The groups were analyzed retrospectively regarding patient 
and disease characteristics, with the main focus being CNS relapse.
RESULTS: While 105 patients received chemotherapy-based prophylaxis, 98 patients 
received additional CNS irradiation. These groups were statistically comparable 
in terms of demographic characteristics and risk factors for CNS involvement. In 
the irradiation group, patients were younger and had more stem cell transplants. 
In a median of 23.8 (11.1-62.4) months, there was no difference between the two 
groups regarding CNS relapse-free survival (log-rank p=0.787).
CONCLUSION: Craniospinal irradiation may not be indispensable for every adult 
patient with ALL, similarly to pediatric patients. It is crucial to avoid the 
long-term toxicities of radiation, especially in patients with long life 
expectancy. Craniospinal irradiation may be reserved for therapeutic use in 
cases of CNS relapse and prophylaxis for some high-risk patients.

Publisher: AMAÇ: Erişkin akut lenfoblastik lösemi (ALL) hastalarında, santral 
sinir sistemi (SSS) tutulumuna karşı kullanılan profilaktik rejimlerin etkinlik 
ve güvenliğini karşılaştıran çalışma bulunmamaktadır. Bu çok merkezli 
retrospektif çalışmada, profilakside SSS ışınlamayı içeren ve içermeyen 
rejimlerin etkinliklerinin karşılaştırılması amaçlanmıştır.
GEREÇ VE YÖNTEMLER: Bu çalışma, karşılaştırmalı retrospektif kohort çalışması 
olup; Türkiye’de dört farklı üçüncü basamak merkeze başvuran 203 hastayla 
yapılmıştır. Hastalar, SSS ışınlaması alanlar ve almayanlar olarak iki gruba 
ayrılmıştır. Gruplar, takipte SSS tutulumu gelişimi temelinde hastaların ve 
ALL’nin özelliklerine göre karşılaştırılmıştır.
BULGULAR: Yüz beş hasta sadece kemoterapi bazlı profilaksi alırken, 98 hasta ek 
olarak SSS ışınlaması almıştır. SSS ışınlama grubundaki hastaların medyan yaşı 
daha küçüktür ve kök hücre nakli oranı daha yüksektir. Bunlar haricinde gruplar, 
demografik özellikler ve SSS tutulumu risk faktörleri açısından benzer dağılım 
göstermektedir. Medyan 23,8 (11,1-62,4) aylık takipte, SSS tutulumsuz sağkalım 
açısından iki grup arasında fark saptanmamıştır (log-rank p=0,787).
SONUÇ: Pediatrik hastalarda kanıtlandığı gibi erişkin ALL hastalarında da SSS 
ışınlaması, çok yüksek riskli hastalar dışında profilakside yer almayabilir. 
Özellikle yüksek yaşam süresi beklenen hastalarda, ışınlamanın nörolojik 
toksisitesinden kaçınılması da günümüzde amaçlar arasında olmalıdır. 
Işınlamanın, SSS tutulumu gelişmiş hastalarda terapötik amaçla 
sınırlandırılması, çok yüksek riskli hastalar dışında iyi bir risk/fayda oranına 
sahiptir.

©Copyright 2022 by Turkish Society of Hematology | Turkish Journal of 
Hematology, Published by Galenos Publishing House

DOI: 10.4274/tjh.galenos.2022.2021.0680
PMCID: PMC9421337
PMID: 35445593 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: No conflict of interest 
was declared by the authors.


949. Appl Biochem Biotechnol. 2023 Apr;195(4):2587-2596. doi: 
10.1007/s12010-021-03514-y. Epub 2022 Apr 21.

Progeria-a Rare Genetic Condition with Accelerated Ageing Process.

Talukder P(1), Saha A(2), Roy S(2), Ghosh G(2), Dutta Roy D(2), Barua S(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, University of Engineering and Management, 
University Area, Plot, Street Number 03, Action Area III, B/5, Newtown, Kolkata, 
West Bengal, 700156, India. pratik.talukder@uem.edu.in.
(2)Department of Biotechnology, University of Engineering and Management, 
University Area, Plot, Street Number 03, Action Area III, B/5, Newtown, Kolkata, 
West Bengal, 700156, India.

Progeria is a rare genetic disease which is characterised by accelerated ageing 
and reduced life span. There are differing types of progeria, but the classic 
type is Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome (HGPS). Within a year of birth, 
people suffering from it start showing several features such as very low weight, 
scleroderma, osteoporosis and loss of hair. Their life expectancy is highly 
reduced and the average life span is around 14.6 years. Research is going on to 
understand the genetic and molecular level causes of this disease. Apart from 
that, several studies are also going on to discover therapeutic techniques and 
drugs to treat this disease but the success rate is very low. To gain a better 
understanding about research developments of progeria more experimental models, 
drugs and molecular technologies are under trial. Different important aspects 
and recent developments in epidemiology, genetic causes, symptoms, diagnosis and 
treatment options of progeria are discussed in this review.

© 2021. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12010-021-03514-y
PMID: 35445924 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


950. Dermatol Ther (Heidelb). 2022 May;12(5):1073-1089. doi: 
10.1007/s13555-022-00722-0. Epub 2022 Apr 21.

Use of Systemic Therapies for Treatment of Psoriasis in People Living with 
Controlled HIV: Inference-Based Guidance from a Multidisciplinary Expert Panel.

Papp KA(1)(2), Beecker J(#)(3)(4)(5)(6), Cooper C(#)(4)(6)(7), Kirchhof 
MG(#)(4)(5), Pozniak AL(#)(8), Rockstroh JK(#)(9), Dutz JP(10)(11)(12), 
Gooderham MJ(3)(13), Gniadecki R(14), Hong CH(3)(11)(15), Lynde CW(3)(16), Maari 
C(17), Poulin Y(18), Vender RB(19)(20), Walmsley SL(21)(22)(23).

Author information:
(1)Probity Medical Research Inc., Waterloo, ON, Canada. 
kapapp@probitymedical.com.
(2)K Papp Clinical Research, Waterloo, ON, Canada. kapapp@probitymedical.com.
(3)Probity Medical Research Inc., Waterloo, ON, Canada.
(4)University of Ottawa, Ottawa, ON, Canada.
(5)Division of Dermatology, The Ottawa Hospital, Ottawa, ON, Canada.
(6)Ottawa Hospital Research Institute, Ottawa, ON, Canada.
(7)The Ottawa Hospital and Regional Hepatitis Program, Ottawa, ON, Canada.
(8)Chelsea and Westminster Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, London, UK.
(9)Department of Medicine, University of Bonn, Bonn, Germany.
(10)Skin Care Center, Vancouver, BC, Canada.
(11)Department of Dermatology and Skin Science, University of British Columbia, 
Vancouver, BC, Canada.
(12)BC Children's Hospital Research Institute, Vancouver, BC, Canada.
(13)SKiN Centre for Dermatology, Peterborough, ON, Canada.
(14)Division of Dermatology, Department of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine and 
Dentistry, University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB, Canada.
(15)Dr. Chih-Ho Hong Medical Inc., Surrey, BC, Canada.
(16)Lynde Institute for Dermatology, Markham, ON, Canada.
(17)Innovaderm Research Inc, Montreal, QC, Canada.
(18)Centre de Recherche Dermatologique du Québec Métropolitain, Quebec, QC, 
Canada.
(19)Dermatrials Research Inc., Hamilton, ON, Canada.
(20)Department of Medicine, McMaster University, Hamilton, ON, Canada.
(21)Toronto General Hospital Research Institute, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(22)University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(23)Department of Medicine, University Health Network, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(#)Contributed equally

Erratum in
    Dermatol Ther (Heidelb). 2023 Aug;13(8):1891-1892.

BACKGROUND: People living with human immunodeficiency virus (PLHIV) have a 
similar prevalence of psoriasis as the general population, though incidence and 
severity correlate with HIV viral load. Adequately treating HIV early renders 
the infection a chronic medical condition and allows PLHIV with a suppressed 
viral load (PLHIV-s) to live normal lives. Despite this, safety concerns and a 
lack of high-level data have hindered the use of systemic psoriasis therapies in 
PLHIV-s.
OBJECTIVES: We aim to provide a structured framework that supports healthcare 
professionals and patients discussing the risks and benefits of systemic 
psoriasis therapy in PLHIV-s. Our goal was to address the primary question, are 
responses to systemic therapies for the treatment of psoriasis in PLHIV-s 
similar to those in the non-HIV population?
METHODS: We implemented an inference-based approach relying on indirect evidence 
when direct clinical trial data were absent. In this instance, we reviewed 
indirect evidence supporting inferences on the status of immune function in 
PLHIV. Recommendations on systemic treatment for psoriasis in PLHIV were derived 
using an inferential heuristic.
RESULTS: We identified seven indirect indicators of immune function informed by 
largely independent bodies of evidence: (1) functional assays, (2) vaccine 
response, (3) life expectancy, (4) psoriasis manifestations, (5) rate of 
infections, (6) rate of malignancies, and (7) organ transplant outcomes.
CONCLUSIONS: Drug-related benefits and risks when treating a patient with 
systemic psoriasis therapies are similar for non-HIV patients and PLHIV with a 
suppressed viral load and normalized CD4 counts. Prior to initiating psoriasis 
treatment in PLHIV, HIV replication should be addressed by an HIV specialist. 
Exercise additional caution for patients with a suppressed viral load and 
discordant CD4 responses on antiretroviral therapy.

Plain Language Summary: People living with human immunodeficiency virus (PLHIV) 
develop psoriasis as often as everyone else. We asked: what are effective and 
safe treatments when PLHIV need systemic therapy (pills or injections) for their 
psoriasis?HIV infection attacks the immune system. When HIV is not treated, the 
immune system declines. A less effective immune system makes it harder for the 
body to fight infections and certain cancers. Psoriasis is a skin condition 
caused by overactive immune cells. Effective psoriasis treatments reduce 
immune-cell activity. There are some concerns that treatments for psoriasis may 
not work and could worsen infections or cancers.To answer the question, we 
gathered 11 dermatologists and 4 HIV specialists. We reviewed the international 
scientific literature on PLHIV and psoriasis. The absence of direct evidence and 
volume of information to review made the process challenging. The end results 
were worthwhile.We concluded that people who are diagnosed early and take 
antiretroviral therapy to control their HIV infection (PLHIV-c) can live long, 
healthy lives. Accordingly, we determined that PLHIV-c can likely expect the 
same safety and efficacy for systemic psoriasis treatments as the general 
population. Treatment decisions should be made on a case-by-case basis through 
consultation with the patient and treating physician(s).Pillars of modern 
medicine are evidence-based care and collaborative decision-making. Too often, 
neither care provider nor patient are adequately informed. We have tried to fill 
one information gap for PLHIV and psoriasis. This process may help answer 
questions in other disease populations where direct evidence is scarce or 
absent.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s13555-022-00722-0
PMCID: PMC9110627
PMID: 35445963

Conflict of interest statement: Dr. Kim Papp has served as an investigator, 
speaker, advisor/consultant for and/or received grants/honoraria from AbbVie, 
Akros, Amgen, Anacor, Arcutis, Astellas, AstraZeneca, Bausch Health, Baxalta, 
Baxter, Boehringer Ingelheim, Bristol Myers Squibb, CanFite, Celgene, Coherus, 
Dermira, Dermavant, Dow Pharma, Eli Lilly, Forward Pharma, Galderma, Genentech, 
GlaxoSmithKline, Janssen, Kyowa Hakko Kirin, LEO Pharma, Meiji Seika Pharma, 
Merck (MSD), Merck-Serono, Mitsubishi Pharma, Novartis, Pfizer, Regeneron, 
Roche, Sanofi Genzyme, Takeda, and UCB. Dr. Jennifer Beecker has served as an 
investigator, speaker, advisor/consultant for and/or received grants/honoraria 
from AbbVie, Amgen, Boehringer Ingelheim, Bristol Myers Squibb, Celgene, 
Concert, Galderma, Eli Lilly, Incyte, Janssen, Johnson and Johnson, Leo Pharma, 
L’Oréal Group, Novartis, Pfizer, Reistone, Sanofi Genzyme, and UCB. Dr. Curtis 
Cooper has served as a speaker and advisor for AbbVie, Astra Zeneca, Gilead 
Sciences, and ViiV Healthcare. Dr. Mark Kirchhof has served as an 
advisor/consultant for AbbVie, Actelion, Amgen, Bausch Health, Celgene, Eli 
Lilly, Janssen, LEO Pharma, Novartis, UCB, Sanofi Genzyme, and served as a 
speaker for AbbVie, Janssen, LEO Pharma, Novartis, Pfizer, UCB, Sanofi Genzyme. 
Dr. Anton Pozniak is a member of the advisory boards and symposia for ViiV, 
Gilead, Janssen and Merck. Dr. Juergen Rockstroh has served as an 
advisor/consultant and/or a speaker for Abivax, Gilead, Merck, Abbvie, Janssen, 
Theratechnologies, and ViiV. Dr. Jan Dutz has served as an advisor/consultant 
for AbbVie, Amgen, Bausch, Celgene, Janssen, LEO Pharma, Lilly, Novartis, 
Sanofi, has received grants and honoraria from AbbVie, Janssen, Corbis, Lilly, 
and has served as a speaker for Celgene, Janssen. JD is supported by a Senior 
Scientist Award of the BC Children’s Hospital Research Institute. Dr. Melinda 
Gooderham has served as an investigator, speaker, advisor and/or consultant for 
AbbVie, Akros, Amgen, AnaptysBio, Arena, Arcutis, Asana, Aslan, Bausch Health, 
Boehringer Ingelheim, Bristol Myers Squibb, Celgene, Coherus, Dermira, 
Dermavant, Eli Lilly, Galderma, GlaxoSmithKline, Incyte, Janssen, Kyowa Kirin, 
LEO Pharma, MedImmune, Merck, Novartis, Pfizer, Regeneron, Roche, Sanofi 
Genzyme, Sun Pharma, Takeda, and UCB. Dr. Robert Gniadecki has served as an 
advisor/consultant for AbbVie, Bausch, Celgene, Janssen, LEO Pharma, Lilly, 
Novartis, Mallinckrodt Pharmaceuticals, Sanofi, and served as a speaker for 
Mallinckrodt Pharmaceuticals, Janssen, Sanofi. Dr. Chih-ho Hong has served as an 
investigator, speaker, advisor and/or consultant for AbbVie, Amgen, Actelion, 
Akros, Arcutis, Bristol Myers Squibb, Boehringer-Ingelheim, Celgene, Dermira, 
Dermavant, Eli-Lilly, Galderma, GlaxoSmithKline, Incyte, Janssen, LEO Pharma, 
MedImmune, Merck, Novartis, Pfizer, Regeneron, Roche, Sanofi-Genzyme, Sun 
Pharma, UCB and Valeant (Bausch Health). Dr. Charles W Lynde has served as an 
Advisory Board Member, Speaker, Consultant for and/or received honoraria or 
grants from, AbbVie, Amgen, Bausch Health, Celgene, Eli Lilly, Janssen, 
GlaxoSmithKline, LEO Pharma, Merck, Novartis, Pfizer, UCB, Valeant. Dr. 
Catherine Maari has served as an Investigator, Advisory Board Member, Speaker, 
Consultant for, and/or received honoraria or grants from, AbbVie, UCB, 
Boehringer Ingelheim, Celgene, Eli Lilly, Galderma, LEO Pharma, 
GlaxoSmithKline-Stiefel, Janssen, Novartis, Bausch and Pfizer. Dr. Yves Poulin 
has received grants/honoraria from AbbVie, Amgen, Aquinox, Aralez, Baxalta, 
Biogen, Boehringer Ingelheim, Bristol Myers Squibb, Celgene, Dermira, DS 
Biopharma, Eli Lilly, EMD Serono, Galderma, GlaxoSmithKline, Janssen, LEO 
Pharma, MedImmune, Merck, Novartis, Pfizer, Regeneron, Takeda, UCB Pharma, and 
Valeant. Dr. Ronald Vender has served as an advisor/consultant and speaker, and 
received grants and honoraria, from AbbVie, Amgen, Bausch-Health, Celgene, 
Janssen, Lilly, Merck, Novartis, Pfizer, and UCB. Dr. Sharon Walmsley has served 
as an advisor/consultant and speaker, and received grants and honoraria, from 
ViiV Healthcare, Gilead, GlaxoSmithKline, Janssen and Merck.


951. J Parasitol. 2022 Mar 1;108(2):217-225. doi: 10.1645/20-123.

CERCARIAL LONGEVITY AND INFECTIVITY OF BOLBOPHORUS DAMNIFICUS, WITH NOTES ON 
METACERCARIAL PERSISTENCE AND SITE SPECIFICITY IN CHANNEL AND HYBRID CATFISH.

Gunn MA(1), Allen PJ(1), Rosser TG(2), Wise DJ(1)(3), Griffin MJ(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Wildlife, Fisheries and Aquaculture, Mississippi State 
University, Mississippi State, Mississippi 39762.
(2)Department of Basic Sciences, College of Veterinary Medicine, Mississippi 
State University, Mississippi State, Mississippi 39762.
(3)Delta Research and Extension Center, Thad Cochran National Warmwater 
Aquaculture Center, Mississippi State University, Stoneville, Mississippi 38776.
(4)Department of Pathobiology and Population Medicine, College of Veterinary 
Medicine, Mississippi State University, Stoneville, Mississippi 38776.

Advances in hybridization practices in U.S. catfish aquaculture have led to 
increased production of channel (Ictalurus punctatus) × blue catfish (Ictalurus 
furcatus) hybrids to capitalize on their more favorable production 
characteristics. However, the effects of typical channel catfish pathogens on 
hybrids are not well understood, including the digenean Bolbophorus damnificus, 
which has caused significant losses in channel catfish production. Three 
experiments were conducted to assess the longevity and site specificity of 2 
life stages of B. damnificus impacting catfish production. The first experiment 
investigated the cercarial longevity and infectivity of B. damnificus over time. 
Channel catfish were individually challenged with 100 cercariae/fish with 
cercariae aged in 12-hr time intervals over 5 days (n = 5 fish/time point), with 
metacercarial cysts excised and enumerated 14 days postchallenge. There was a 
decrease in cercaria viability and encysted metacercariae over the first 36 hr, 
with the 12-hr time point having both the greatest cercaria survival and the 
highest number of metacercariae in exposed fish. The second experiment 
investigated the longevity of metacercariae within both channel and hybrid 
catfish. Fish (n = 30) were exposed to 2 treatments (75 or 150 cercariae/fish), 
and 2 fish from each treatment were sampled every 3 mo for 13 mo. Live 
metacercariae, based on motility observed after excystment, were found in both 
species up to 13 mo postchallenge, indicating the metacercariae of B. damnificus 
can persist throughout an entire growing season in both channel and hybrid 
catfish. The third experiment investigated the site specificity of metacercariae 
within both channel and hybrid catfish. Fish (n = 60/species) were challenged 
with 300 cercariae/fish and 9 fish/species were sampled after 90 days. 
Metacercariae were excised and enumerated from the anterior midsection (head and 
body), posterior midsection (trunk/caudal peduncle), ventral (belly), and caudal 
fin (tail) sections of each fish. Overall, the trunk/caudal peduncle had a 
2-fold increase in the number of metacercariae excised, and although not 
significantly higher, results indicate this region should be the focal point of 
pondside assessment for the presence of B. damnificus because of ease of 
detection of encysted metacercariae.

© American Society of Parasitologists 2022.

DOI: 10.1645/20-123
PMID: 35446406 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


952. PLoS One. 2022 Apr 21;17(4):e0263977. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0263977. 
eCollection 2022.

Evaluating the effects of second-dose vaccine-delay policies in European 
countries: A simulation study based on data from Greece.

Barmpounakis P(1), Demiris N(1), Kontoyiannis I(2), Pavlakis GN(3), Sypsa V(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, Athens University of Economics and Business, 
Athens, Greece.
(2)Department of Pure Mathematics and Mathematical Statistics, University of 
Cambridge, Cambridge, United Kingdom.
(3)Human Retrovirus Section, VB, National Cancer Institute, Frederick, Maryland, 
United States of America.
(4)Departments of Hygiene, Epidemiology and Medical Statistics, Medical School, 
National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, Athens, Greece.

The results of a simulation-based evaluation of several policies for vaccine 
rollout are reported, particularly focusing on the effects of delaying the 
second dose of two-dose vaccines. In the presence of limited vaccine supply, the 
specific policy choice is a pressing issue for several countries worldwide, and 
the adopted course of action will affect the extension or easing of 
non-pharmaceutical interventions in the next months. We employ a suitably 
generalised, age-structure, stochastic SEIR (Susceptible → Exposed → Infectious 
→ Removed) epidemic model that can accommodate quantitative descriptions of the 
major effects resulting from distinct vaccination strategies. The different 
rates of social contacts among distinct age-groups (as well as some other model 
parameters) are informed by a recent survey conducted in Greece, but the 
conclusions are much more widely applicable. The results are summarised and 
evaluated in terms of the total number of deaths and infections as well as life 
years lost. The optimal strategy is found to be one based on fully vaccinating 
the elderly/at risk as quickly as possible, while extending the time-interval 
between the two vaccine doses to 12 weeks for all individuals below 75 years 
old, in agreement with epidemic theory which suggests targeting a combination of 
susceptibility and infectivity. This policy, which is similar to the approaches 
adopted in the UK and in Canada, is found to be effective in reducing deaths and 
life years lost in the period while vaccination is still being carried out.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0263977
PMCID: PMC9022792
PMID: 35446847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


953. PLoS One. 2022 Apr 21;17(4):e0263403. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0263403. 
eCollection 2022.

The global, regional, and national burden and quality of care index (QCI) of 
colorectal cancer; a global burden of disease systematic analysis 1990-2019.

Nejadghaderi SA(1), Roshani S(1), Mohammadi E(1)(2), Yoosefi M(1), Rezaei 
N(1)(3), Esfahani Z(1)(4), Azadnajafabad S(1), Ahmadi N(1), Shahin S(1), Kazemi 
A(1)(3), Namazi Shabestari A(5), Khosravi A(6), Mokdad AH(7), Larijani B(3), 
Farzadfar F(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Non-Communicable Diseases Research Center, Endocrinology and Metabolism 
Population Sciences Institute, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, 
Iran.
(2)Sina Trauma and Surgery Research Center, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences (TUMS), Tehran, Iran.
(3)Endocrinology and Metabolism Research Center, Endocrinology and Metabolism 
Clinical Sciences Institute, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, 
Iran.
(4)Department of Biostatistics, University of Social Welfare and Rehabilitation 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(5)Department of Geriatric Medicine, School of Medicine, Tehran University of 
Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(6)Iranian Ministry of Health and Medical Education, Tehran, Iran.
(7)Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, University of Washington, 
Seattle, WA, United States of America.

BACKGROUND: Colorectal cancer (CRC) is among the five most incident and lethal 
cancers in world and its burden varies between countries and sexes. We aimed to 
present a comprehensive measure called the quality of care index (QCI) to 
evaluate the inequity and healthcare quality of care regarding CRC by sex and 
location.
METHODS: Data on the burden of CRC were extracted from the Global Burden of 
Disease study 2019. It was transformed to four ratios, including 
mortality-to-incidence, disability-adjusted life years (DALYs)-to-prevalence, 
prevalence-to-incidence, and years of life lost (YLLs)-to-years lived with 
disability (YLDs). Principal component analysis was implemented on the four 
ratios and the most influential component was considered as QCI with a score 
ranging from zero to 100, for which higher scores represented better quality of 
care. Gender Disparity Ratio (GDR) was calculated by dividing QCI for females by 
males.
RESULTS: The global incidence and death numbers of CRC were 2,166,168 (95% 
uncertainty interval: 1,996,298-2,342,842) and 1,085,797 (1,002,795-1,149,679) 
in 2019, respectively. Globally, QCI and GDR values were 77.6 and 1.0 
respectively in 2019. There was a positive association between the level of 
quality of care and socio-demographic index (SDI) quintiles. Region of the 
Americas and African Region had the highest and lowest QCI values, respectively 
(84.4 vs. 23.6). The QCI values started decreasing beyond the age of 75 in 2019 
worldwide.
CONCLUSION: There is heterogeneity in QCI between SDI quintiles. More attention 
should be paid to people aged more than 75 years old because of the lower 
quality of care in this group.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0263403
PMCID: PMC9022854
PMID: 35446852 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


954. PLoS One. 2022 Apr 21;17(4):e0267313. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0267313. 
eCollection 2022.

Early cost-effectiveness analysis of screening for preeclampsia in nulliparous 
women: A modelling approach in European high-income settings.

Zakiyah N(1)(2)(3), Tuytten R(4), Baker PN(5), Kenny LC(6), Postma 
MJ(1)(3)(7)(8), van Asselt ADI(1)(7)(9); IMPROvED Consortium.

Author information:
(1)Unit of PharmacoTherapy, Epidemiology & Economics (PTE2), Department of 
Pharmacy, University of Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands.
(2)Department of Pharmacology and Clinical Pharmacy, Faculty of Pharmacy, 
Universitas Padjadjaran, Bandung, Indonesia.
(3)Center of Excellence in Higher Education for Pharmaceutical Care Innovation, 
Universitas Padjadjaran, Bandung, Indonesia.
(4)Research & Development, Metabolomic Diagnostics, Little Island, Ireland.
(5)College of Life Sciences, University of Leicester, Leicester, United Kingdom.
(6)Department of Women's and Children's Health, the Faculty of Health and Life 
Sciences, University of Liverpool, Liverpool, United Kingdom.
(7)Unit of Global Health, Department of Health Sciences, University Medical 
Center Groningen, University of Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands.
(8)Department of Economics, Econometrics & Finance, Faculty of Economics & 
Business, University of Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands.
(9)Unit of Patient Centered Health Technology Assessment, Department of 
Epidemiology, University Medical Center Groningen, University of Groningen, 
Groningen, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Preeclampsia causes substantial maternal and perinatal morbidity and 
mortality and significant societal economic impact. Effective screening would 
facilitate timely and appropriate prevention and management of preeclampsia.
OBJECTIVES: To develop an early cost-effectiveness analysis to assess both costs 
and health outcomes of a new screening test for preeclampsia from a healthcare 
payer perspective, in the United Kingdom (UK), Ireland, the Netherlands and 
Sweden.
METHODS: A decision tree over a 9-month time horizon was developed to explore 
the cost-effectiveness of the new screening test for preeclampsia compared to 
the current screening strategy. The new test strategy is being developed so that 
it can stratify healthy low risk nulliparous women early in pregnancy to either 
a high-risk group with a risk of 1 in 6 or more of developing preeclampsia, or a 
low-risk group with a risk of 1 in 100 or less. The model simulated 25 plausible 
scenarios in a hypothetical cohort of 100,000 pregnant women, in which the 
sensitivity and specificity of the new test were varied to set a benchmark for 
the minimum test performance that is needed for the test to become 
cost-effective. The input parameters and costs were mainly derived from 
published literature. The main outcome was incremental costs per preeclampsia 
case averted, expressed as an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER). 
Deterministic and probabilistic sensitivity analyses were conducted to assess 
uncertainty.
RESULTS: Base case results showed that the new test strategy would be more 
effective and less costly compared to the current situation in the UK. In the 
Netherlands, the majority of scenarios would be cost-effective from a threshold 
of €50,000 per preeclampsia case averted, while in Ireland and Sweden, the vast 
majority of scenarios would be considered cost-effective only when a threshold 
of €100,000 was used. In the best case analyses, ICERs were more favourable in 
all four participating countries. Aspirin effectiveness, prevalence of 
preeclampsia, accuracy of the new screening test and cost of regular antenatal 
care were identified as driving factors for the cost-effectiveness of screening 
for preeclampsia.
CONCLUSION: The results indicate that the new screening test for preeclampsia 
has potential to be cost-effective. Further studies based on proven accuracy of 
the test will confirm whether the new screening test is a cost-effective 
additional option to the current situation.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0267313
PMCID: PMC9022877
PMID: 35446907 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: NZ performed the major part of this project as 
an PhD researcher at the University of Groningen. ADIvA and RT report grants 
from 7th Framework Programme of the European Union, during the conduct of the 
study. PNB and LCK are minority shareholders in Metabolomic Diagnostics, a 
company that seeks to develop screening tests for preeclampsia based on analyses 
of metabolites.; RT is employee of Metabolomic Diagnostics, outside the 
submitted work. MJP reports grants and personal fees from various pharmaceutical 
industries, all outside the submitted work. MJP holds stocks in Health Ecore and 
Pharmacoeconomics Advice Groningen (PAG Ltd) and is advisor to Asc Academics, 
all pharmacoeconomic consultancy companies. This does not alter our adherence to 
PLOS ONE policies on sharing data and materials.


955. Insects. 2022 Mar 29;13(4):333. doi: 10.3390/insects13040333.

Effects of Elevated CO(2) on the Fitness of Three Successive Generations of 
Lipaphis erysimi.

Li XM(1), Zhao MH(1), Huang F(2), Shang FG(1), Zhang YH(1), Liu CM(1), He SJ(1), 
Wu G(1).

Author information:
(1)Hubei Key Laboratory of Insect Resource Utilization and Sustainable Pest 
Management, College of Plant Science and Technology, Huazhong Agricultural 
University, Wuhan 430070, China.
(2)Eco-Environmental Engineering Evaluation Center, Hubei Academy of 
Eco-Environmental Sciences, Wuhan 430072, China.

To assess the effect of elevated CO2 on the development, fecundity, and 
population dynamic parameters of L. erysimi, the age-stage, two-sex life table 
was used to predict the individual fitness and population parameters of three 
successive generations of L. erysimi in this study. The results show that a 
significantly longer total pre-adult stage before oviposition (TPOP) was 
observed in the third generation compared with the first generation of L. 
erysimi under the 800 μL/L CO2 treatment. The fecundity is significantly lower 
in the 800 μL/L CO2 treatment than that in the 400 μL/L CO2 treatment in the 
third generation of L. erysimi, which indicates that elevated CO2 had a negative 
effect on the individual fitness parameters of L. erysimi. Additionally, the 
life expectancy (exj) is significantly lower under the 800 μL/L CO2 treatment 
than that under the 400 μL/L CO2 treatment in the three successive generations. 
A significantly higher intrinsic rate of increase (r) and finite rate of 
increase (λ) were found in the second generation compared with those in the 
first and third generations of L. erysimi under the 800 μL/L CO2 treatment. 
Moreover, significantly lower r and λ were observed under the 800 μL/L CO2 
treatment compared with those under the 400 μL/L and 600 μL/L CO2 treatments in 
the first generation of L. erysimi, which indicates that elevated CO2 has a 
short-term effect on the population parameters (r and λ) of L. erysimi. Our 
experiment can provide the data for the comprehensive prevention and control of 
L. erysimi in the future with increasing CO2 levels.

DOI: 10.3390/insects13040333
PMCID: PMC9031089
PMID: 35447775

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


956. Curr Oncol. 2022 Mar 30;29(4):2442-2453. doi: 10.3390/curroncol29040198.

Implication of ERBB2 as a Predictive Tool for Survival in Patients with 
Pancreatic Cancer in Histological Studies.

Ortega MA(1)(2)(3), Pekarek L(1)(2)(4), Fraile-Martinez O(1)(2), Garcia-Montero 
C(1)(2), Saez MA(1)(2)(5), Asúnsolo A(1)(2)(6), Alvarez-Mon MA(1)(2), Monserrat 
J(1)(2), Ruiz-Llorente L(2)(7), García-Honduvilla N(1)(2), Albillos 
A(1)(2)(8)(9), Buján J(1)(2), Alvarez-Mon M(1)(2)(10), Guijarro LG(2)(7)(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine and Medical Specialities, Faculty of Medicine and 
Health Sciences, University of Alcalá, 28801 Alcala de Henares, Spain.
(2)Ramón y Cajal Institute of Sanitary Research (IRYCIS), 28034 Madrid, Spain.
(3)Cancer Registry and Pathology Department, Principe de Asturias University 
Hospital, 28806 Alcala de Henares, Spain.
(4)Oncology Service, Guadalajara University Hospital, 19002 Guadalajara, Spain.
(5)Pathological Anatomy Service, Central University Hospital of Defence-UAH 
Madrid, 28801 Alcala de Henares, Spain.
(6)Department of Surgery, Medical and Social Sciences, Faculty of Medicine and 
Health Sciences, University of Alcalá, 28801 Alcala de Henares, Spain.
(7)Unit of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Department of System Biology, 
University of Alcalá, 28801 Alcala de Henares, Spain.
(8)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Ramón y Cajal University 
Hospital, University of Alcalá, Ramón y Cajal Institute for Health Research, 
28034 Madrid, Spain.
(9)Biomedical Research Networking Center of Hepatic and Digestive Diseases 
(CIBEREHD), Institute of Health Carlos III, 28034 Madrid, Spain.
(10)Immune System Diseases-Rheumatology, Oncology Service an Internal Medicine, 
University Hospital Príncipe de Asturias, 28806 Alcala de Henares, Spain.

Pancreatic cancer will be positioned by the year 2030 as the second cause of 
oncological death after lung cancer. The pathophysiology of the most common 
variety, which involves the adenocarcinoma of the pancreas, represents one of 
the main challenges for current oncology to explain its tumorigenesis and create 
a targeted treatment. The tumor microenvironment, metastatic capacity, and lack 
of early diagnosis lead patients to present advanced stages at the time of 
diagnosis. Despite numerous efforts, little progress has been made in clinical 
outcomes and with respect to the improved survival of these patients. For this 
reason, in recent years, numerous diagnostic tests, treatments, and possible 
approaches in the fields of radiotherapy, chemotherapy, immunotherapy, and 
surgery have been developed to find a combination of methods that improves life 
expectancy in patients diagnosed with this disease. On the other hand, the 
scientific community has made numerous advances in the molecular bases of 
pancreatic cancer since several oncogenetic pathways have been described and the 
markers expressed by the tumor have proven to be useful in the prognosis of 
pancreatic adenocarcinoma. These molecular alterations allow the study of 
possible therapeutic targets that improve the prognosis of these patients, but 
even numerous tumor cell-individual interactions must be explained to understand 
the underlying pathophysiology causing the high mortality. Therefore, the 
purpose of our study is to examine the expression of markers such as EGFR, 
Cyclin D1, andCDK4 in order to find a relationship with the possible long-term 
prognostic factors of patients affected by pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma. Our 
results show that there is a prognostic role for ErbB2, EGFR, beta catenin, 
cyclin D1, and CDK4. Of these, we highlight the clinical importance of ErbB2 in 
the survival rates of patients who overexpress this component.

DOI: 10.3390/curroncol29040198
PMCID: PMC9027548
PMID: 35448172 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


957. J Fungi (Basel). 2022 Mar 28;8(4):349. doi: 10.3390/jof8040349.

Morphological and Molecular Evidence Reveal Eight New Species of Gymnopus from 
Northeast China.

Hu J(1)(2), Zhao G(2), Tuo Y(2), Rao G(2), Zhang Z(2), Qi Z(2), Yue L(2), Liu 
Y(2), Zhang T(3), Li Y(1), Zhang B(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Life Science, Northeast Normal University, Changchun 130024, China.
(2)Engineering Research Centre of Edible and Medicinal Fungi, Jilin Agricultural 
University, Ministry of Education, Changchun 130118, China.
(3)Department of Pesticide and Pesticide Machinery, Jilin Province Agricultural 
Technology Extension Station, Changchun 130000, China.

Gymnopus is a widely distributed genus consisting of about 300 species thus far, 
including Gymnopus fusipes as a generic type. A total of nine species from China 
belong to the sect. Levipedes, including eight new species—Gymnopus 
longisterigmaticus, Gymnopus longus, Gymnopus macrosporus, Gymnopus striatus, 
Gymnopus changbaiensis, Gymnopus tomentosus, Gymnopus tiliicola, and Gymnopus 
globulosus—which were delimited and proposed based on morphological and 
molecular evidence; and one new record from Jilin Province, China—Gymnopus 
erythropus. Detailed descriptions and illustrations are presented, as well as 
comparisons to similar species. Overall, our results broaden the morphological 
characterization of the genus. The pileipellis of sect. Levipedes typically 
takes on the “Dryophila structure”, while, in our findings, pileipellis terminal 
hyphae inflated to spherical to prolate were observed, in addition to extremely 
long basidia sterigma. The phylogenies inferred from the ITS and nLSU dataset 
supported the Gymnopus, which was defined by Oliveira et al. as a monophyletic 
genus, and the novel species as separate lineages within. A key to all species 
described in this study is also provided.

DOI: 10.3390/jof8040349
PMCID: PMC9027233
PMID: 35448580

Conflict of interest statement: The authors state no conflict of interest.


958. J Fungi (Basel). 2022 Apr 14;8(4):401. doi: 10.3390/jof8040401.

FFGA1 Protein Is Essential for Regulating Vegetative Growth, Cell Wall 
Integrity, and Protection against Stress in Flammunina filiformis.

Du M(1)(2), Xie Y(1), Wang M(1), Yang H(1), Hu B(1), Mukhtar I(3), Liu Y(1), Tao 
Y(1), Liu F(1), Xie B(1).

Author information:
(1)Mycological Research Center, College of Life Science, Fujian Agriculture and 
Forestry University, Fuzhou 350002, China.
(2)Institute of Soil and Fertilizer, Guizhou Academy of Agricultural Sciences, 
Guiyang 550006, China.
(3)Institute of Oceanography, Minjiang University, Fuzhou 350108, China.

Flammulina filiformis is a popular mushroom which has been regarded as a 
potential model fungus for mycelium growth, fruiting body development, and 
stress response studies. Based on a genome-wide search, four genes encoding 
heterotrimeric G protein α subunits were identified in F. filiformis. The data 
of conserved domain analysis showed that these genes contain only one subgroup I 
of Gα subunit (Gαi), similar to many other fungi. To explore the function of 
Gαi, FfGa1 over-expression (OE) and RNA interference (RNAi) strains were 
generated using the Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation (ATMT) 
approach. RNAi transformant strains showed remarkably reduced growth on PDA 
medium and added sensitivity to cell wall-enforcing agents with maximum growth 
inhibition, but showed better growth in response to hypertonic stress-causing 
agents, while OE strains exhibited more resistance to thermal stress and 
mycoparasite Trichoderma as compared to the wild-type and RNAi strains. Taken 
together, our results indicated that FfGa1 positively regulates hyphal 
extension, and is crucial for the maintenance of cell wall integrity and 
protection against biotic and abiotic (hypertonic and thermal) stress.

DOI: 10.3390/jof8040401
PMCID: PMC9030616
PMID: 35448632

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


959. Parasit Vectors. 2022 Apr 21;15(1):141. doi: 10.1186/s13071-022-05236-4.

Stable transformation of fluorescent proteins into Nosema bombycis by 
electroporation.

Dong Z(#)(1)(2), Gao N(1), Deng B(#)(1), Huang X(1)(3), Hu C(1), Chen P(1)(2), 
Wu Q(1), Lu C(4)(5), Pan M(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Silkworm Genome Biology, Southwest University, 
Chongqing, 400716, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Sericultural Biology and Genetic Breeding, Ministry of 
Agriculture, Southwest University, Chongqing, 400716, China.
(3)The General Extension Station of Sericulture Technology of Guangxi Zhuang 
Autonomous Region, Nanning, 530007, China.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Silkworm Genome Biology, Southwest University, 
Chongqing, 400716, China. lucheng@swu.edu.cn.
(5)Key Laboratory of Sericultural Biology and Genetic Breeding, Ministry of 
Agriculture, Southwest University, Chongqing, 400716, China. lucheng@swu.edu.cn.
(6)State Key Laboratory of Silkworm Genome Biology, Southwest University, 
Chongqing, 400716, China. pmh047@126.com.
