cancer.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings suggest that the NHIS coincided with a reduction in 
health inequalities in England. Policy makers should consider a new 
cross-government strategy to tackle health inequalities drawing from the success 
of the previous NHIS.

Copyright © 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.puhe.2023.02.021
PMID: 37019028 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


682. J Nutr Educ Behav. 2023 Jun;55(6):457-463. doi: 10.1016/j.jneb.2023.02.005.
Epub  2023 Apr 4.

More PEAS Please! Teaching Teachers How to Integrate Food-based Learning Into 
Preschool Science.

Stage VC(1), Resor J(2), Dixon J(2), Hegde AV(3), Méndez LI(4), Lee T(5), 
Breinholt R(2), Goodell LS(6), McMillan VJ(7), Murphy Gilliam E(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Agricultural and Human Sciences, College of Agriculture and 
Life Sciences, North Carolina State University, NC State Extension, Raleigh, NC. 
Electronic address: virginia_stage@ncsu.edu.
(2)The Food-based Early Education (FEEd) Lab, Department of Human Development 
and Family Sciences, College of Health and Human Performance, Greenville, NC.
(3)Department of Human Development and Family Science, College of Health and 
Human Performance, Greenville, NC.
(4)Department of Communication Sciences and Disorders, School of Health and 
Human Sciences, University of North Carolina Greensboro, Greensboro, NC.
(5)Department of Science Education, College of Education, East Carolina 
University, Greenville, NC.
(6)Department of Food, Bioprocessing, and Nutrition Sciences, College of 
Agriculture and Life Sciences, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, NC.
(7)Department of Family and Consumer Sciences, College of Agriculture and 
Environmental Sciences, North Carolina Agricultural and Technical State 
University, Greensboro, NC.
(8)North Carolina Head Start Senior Nutrition Manager, Greenville, NC.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jneb.2023.02.005
PMCID: PMC10257756
PMID: 37019753 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


683. Otolaryngol Clin North Am. 2023 Jun;56(3):445-457. doi: 
10.1016/j.otc.2023.02.006. Epub 2023 Apr 3.

Introducing an Evidence-Based Approach to Wait-And-Scan Management of Sporadic 
Vestibular Schwannoma: Size Threshold Surveillance.

Marinelli JP(1), Lohse CM(2), Carlson ML(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, Mayo Clinic, 200 1st St 
Southwest, Rochester, MN 55905, USA; Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck 
Surgery, San Antonio Uniformed Services Health Education Consortium, 3551 Roger 
Brooke Drive, JBSA, TX 78234, USA.
(2)Department of Quantitative Health Sciences, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.
(3)Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, Mayo Clinic, 200 1st St 
Southwest, Rochester, MN 55905, USA; Department of Neurologic Surgery, Mayo 
Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA. Electronic address: carlson.matthew@mayo.edu.

The advent of MRI has led to more sporadic vestibular schwannomas diagnosed 
today than ever before. Despite the average patient being diagnosed in their 
sixth decade of life with a small tumor and minimal symptoms, population-based 
data demonstrate that more tumors per capita are treated today than ever before. 
Emerging natural history data justify either an upfront treatment approach or 
the "Size Threshold Surveillance" approach. Specifically, if the patient elects 
to pursue observation, then existing data support the tolerance of some growth 
during observation in appropriately selected patients up until a specific size 
threshold range (about 15 mm of CPA extension). The current article discusses 
the rationale behind a shift in the existing observation management approach, 
where initial detection of growth typically begets treatment, and outlines the 
application of a more flexible and nuanced approach based on existing evidence.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.otc.2023.02.006
PMID: 37019767 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest No authors have relevant 
conflicts of interest to disclose.


684. Sante Publique. 2022;34(6):803-812. doi: 10.3917/spub.226.0803.

[The integration of physicians in nursing homes has a positive impact on the 
perceived quality of care].

[Article in French; Abstract available in French from the publisher]

Boulet E(1), Barbet I(2), Hartmann L(3), Narcy M(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire interdisciplinaire de recherche en sciences de l’action (Lirsa) – 
Conservatoire national des arts et métiers (Cnam) – Paris – France. Centre 
d’études de l’emploi et du travail (CEET) – Cnam – Paris – France.
(2)Centre d’études et de recherche en informatique et communication (Cédric) – 
Cnam – Paris – France.
(3)Laboratoire interdisciplinaire de recherche en sciences de l’action (Lirsa) – 
Conservatoire national des arts et métiers (Cnam) – Paris – France.

INTRODUCTION: Since 2017, the Regional Health Agency of ’Île-de-France’ has 
implemented an experiment to subsidize the recruitment of part-time doctors in 
nursing homes, so that residents without a primary care physician can benefit 
from regular medical follow-up.
PURPOSE OF RESEARCH: The purpose of the study is to estimate the effects of this 
experiment: how is it implemented? What are its effects on the perceived quality 
of care?
METHOD: The method used was based on a qualitative survey involving 
semi-structured individual or group interviews. On the whole, 20 professionals, 
one resident, and two daughters of residents were interviewed in four different 
nursing homes.
RESULTS: The investigation shows that this experiment addresses an unmet medical 
need. However, the recruiting of doctors appears to be difficult and significant 
delays have been noted. The experimentation is considered to be beneficial by 
professionals and recipients: It provides an opportunity to re-evaluate 
prescriptions in time, to prevent the deterioration of the residents’ health and 
to reduce the need for emergency services. These physicians are involved in the 
care for cognitive disorders and play an important role in the support of the 
end-of-life.
CONCLUSIONS: The experimentation has a positive effect on the perceived quality 
of care, according to professionals as well as residents or their relatives, 
which could provide a rationale for its sustainability or even its extension.

Publisher: INTRODUCTION: L’agence régionale de santé d’Île-de-France a mis en 
place, depuis 2017, une expérimentation consistant à subventionner le 
recrutement de médecins à temps partiel dans les établissements d’hébergement 
pour personnes dépendantes (Ehpad) afin que les résidents sans médecin traitant 
bénéficient d’un suivi médical régulier.
BUT DE L’ÉTUDE: L’objectif de cette étude est d’estimer les effets du dispositif 
en tentant de répondre à ces deux questions : comment se passe l’intégration du 
médecin dans l’Ehpad ? Quels sont les effets du dispositif sur la qualité des 
soins perçue ?
MÉTHODE: La méthode employée est une enquête qualitative par entretiens 
semi-directifs individuels ou collectifs. Au total, 20 professionnels, une 
résidente et deux filles de résidentes ont été interrogés, dans quatre 
établissements différents.
RÉSULTATS: L’enquête montre que ce dispositif répond à un besoin médical 
insatisfait. Le recrutement de médecins apparaît toutefois difficile et des 
délais importants ont été relevés dans l’étude. L’expérimentation est jugée 
bénéfique par les personnes interrogées : elle permettrait une réévaluation des 
prescriptions en temps voulu, éviterait des dégradations de l’état de santé des 
résidents et limiterait le recours aux urgences. Les médecins interviennent dans 
la prise en soins des troubles cognitifs et jouent un rôle important dans 
l’accompagnement des fins de vie.
CONCLUSIONS: L’expérimentation a un effet positif sur la qualité des soins 
perçue, aussi bien d’après les professionnels que les résidents ou leurs 
proches, ce qui pourrait justifier sa pérennisation voire son extension.

DOI: 10.3917/spub.226.0803
PMID: 37019793 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


685. BMC Geriatr. 2023 Apr 5;23(1):216. doi: 10.1186/s12877-023-03903-4.

Two-year longitudinal associations between nutritional status and frailty in 
community-dwelling older adults: Korean Frailty and Aging Cohort Study.

Kim N(1), Kim GS(#)(2), Won CW(#)(3), Lee JJ(4), Park MK(4), Shin J(5), Kim 
M(6).

Author information:
(1)Wonju College of Nursing, Yonsei University, Wonju, Republic of Korea.
(2)Mo-Im Kim Nursing Research Institute, College of Nursing, Yonsei University, 
50-1, Yonsei-Ro, Seodaemun-Gu, Seoul, 03722, Republic of Korea. GSKIM@yuhs.ac.
(3)Elderly Frailty Research Center, Department of Family Medicine, College of 
Medicine, Kyung Hee University, 26, Kyungheedae-Ro, Dongdaemun-Gu, Seoul, 02447, 
Republic of Korea. chunwon62@naver.com.
(4)Department of Nursing, Graduate School of Yonsei University, Seoul, Republic 
of Korea.
(5)College of Nursing, Woosuk University, Jeollabuk-Do, Republic of Korea.
(6)Department of Biomedical Science and Technology, East-West Medical Research 
Institute, College of Medicine, Kyung Hee University, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Korea is expected to become a super-aged society in 2026, and 
improving nutritional status, which is directly related to health problems, is 
therefore important for increasing healthy life expectancy. Frailty is the most 
complex phenotype of aging, and leads to adverse health outcomes, disability, 
poor quality of life, hospitalization, and mortality. Malnutrition is a major 
risk factor for frailty syndrome. This study aimed to investigate the incidence 
of pre-frailty or frailty in the second wave (T2, 2018-2019) according to 
general characteristics and nutritional status in the first wave (T1, 
2016-2017); and examine the longitudinal association of nutritional status in T1 
and the incidence of pre-frailty or frailty in T2 among older adults living in a 
community.
METHODS: A secondary data analysis was performed using the Korean Frailty and 
Aging Cohort Study (KFACS). Participants comprised 1125 community-dwelling older 
Korean adults aged 70-84 years (mean age: 75.03 ± 3.56 years; 53.8% males). 
Frailty was assessed using the Fried frailty index, and nutritional status was 
assessed using the Korean version of the Mini Nutritional Assessment Short-Form 
and blood nutritional biomarkers. Binary logistic regression was used to 
identify longitudinal associations between the nutritional status at T1 and 
pre-frailty or frailty at T2.
RESULTS: Over the two-year follow-up period, 32.9% and 1.7% of the participants 
became pre-frail and frail, respectively. After the potential confounders were 
adjusted (sociodemographic, health behaviors, and health status 
characteristics), pre-frailty or frailty had a significant longitudinal 
association with severe anorexia (adjusted odds ratio [AOR], 4.17; 95% 
confidence interval [CI], 1.05-16.54), moderate anorexia (AOR, 2.31; 95% CI, 
1.46-3.64), psychological stress or acute disease (AOR, 2.61; 95% CI, 
1.26-5.39), and body mass index (BMI) less than 19 (AOR, 4.11; 95% CI, 
1.20-14.04).
CONCLUSIONS: Anorexia, psychological stress, acute disease, and low BMI are the 
most significant longitudinal risk factors for pre-frailty or frailty in older 
adults. As nutritional risk factors may be preventable or modifiable, it is 
important to develop interventions targeting the same. Community-based health 
professionals in health-related fields should recognize and manage these 
indicators appropriately to prevent frailty among older adults living in the 
community.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12877-023-03903-4
PMCID: PMC10074647
PMID: 37020292 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


686. J Oncol Pharm Pract. 2023 Jun;29(4):944-955. doi: 10.1177/10781552231168071.
 Epub 2023 Apr 6.

Health-related quality of life of women with breast cancer being treated with 
hormone therapy: A scoping review.

Corpes EF(1), Yanez RJV(1), Silva DMD(1), Leite KM(1), Martins MCT(1), Vieira 
MM(1), Santos CPRSD(1), Fernandes AFC(1), Castro RCMB(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nursing, Federal University of Ceará, Fortaleza, CE, Brazil.

OBJECTIVE: To map the evidence available in the literature on the health-related 
quality of life of women with breast cancer using hormone therapy.
DATA SOURCES: This review followed the Joanna Briggs Institute methodological 
recommendations and Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic reviews and 
Meta-Analyses extension for Scoping Reviews reporting guidelines. Searches were 
performed in nine databases using descriptors, synonyms and keywords; grey 
literature was also included. The review protocol was registered with the Open 
Science Framework under doi: http://doi.org/10.17605/OSF.IO/347FM. Inclusion 
criteria were established according to the Population, Concept, and Context 
strategy. The selection of studies was performed by two independent reviewers 
with the aid of RAYYAN software and disagreements were resolved by a third 
reviewer. The main information from the included articles was grouped into 
textual categories and presented by means of a narrative synthesis.
DATA SUMMARY: A total of 5419 records were identified, of which 42 studies fully 
met the eligibility criteria. Most were multicenter studies (42.9%) and 
randomized controlled trials (62%). Most studies addressed anastrozole (39.5%), 
letrozole (34.2%), and tamoxifen (26.3%), which were studied alone or in 
combination. The most widely used health-related quality-of-life assessment tool 
was the EORTC-QLQ-C30. The concomitant use of hormone therapy and 
cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors 4 and 6 showed improvement in health-related 
quality of life.
CONCLUSION: In recent years there has been an increase in studies focused on 
health-related quality of life, and the evidence pointed to relevant information 
on health-related quality of life and the use of endocrine therapy, tamoxifen in 
combination with aromatase inhibitors, as well as aromatase inhibitor alone and 
the use of cyclin-dependent kinase 4 and 6.

DOI: 10.1177/10781552231168071
PMID: 37021486 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


687. Nucleic Acids Res. 2023 Jun 9;51(10):4914-4928. doi: 10.1093/nar/gkad237.

CTC1 OB-B interaction with TPP1 terminates telomerase and prevents telomere 
overextension.

Wang H(1)(2), Ma T(1)(2), Zhang X(2), Chen W(2), Lan Y(2), Kuang G(2), Hsu 
SJ(3), He Z(4), Chen Y(4), Stewart J(5), Bhattacharjee A(3), Luo Z(1)(2), Price 
C(3), Feng X(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, The First Affiliated Hospital, Sun Yat-sen 
University, Guangzhou, Guangdong, China.
(2)Institute of Precision Medicine, The First Affiliated Hospital, Sun Yat-sen 
University, Guangzhou, Guangdong, China.
(3)Department of Cancer Biology, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH, USA.
(4)MOE Key Laboratory of Gene Function and Regulation, State Key Laboratory of 
Biocontrol, School of Life Sciences, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, 
Guangdong, China.
(5)Department of Biological Sciences, University of South Carolina, Columbia, 
SC, USA.

CST (CTC1-STN1-TEN1) is a telomere associated complex that binds ssDNA and is 
required for multiple steps in telomere replication, including termination of 
G-strand extension by telomerase and synthesis of the complementary C-strand. 
CST contains seven OB-folds which appear to mediate CST function by modulating 
CST binding to ssDNA and the ability of CST to recruit or engage partner 
proteins. However, the mechanism whereby CST achieves its various functions 
remains unclear. To address the mechanism, we generated a series of CTC1 mutants 
and studied their effect on CST binding to ssDNA and their ability to rescue CST 
function in CTC1-/- cells. We identified the OB-B domain as a key determinant of 
telomerase termination but not C-strand synthesis. CTC1-ΔB expression rescued 
C-strand fill-in, prevented telomeric DNA damage signaling and growth arrest. 
However, it caused progressive telomere elongation and the accumulation of 
telomerase at telomeres, indicating an inability to limit telomerase action. The 
CTC1-ΔB mutation greatly reduced CST-TPP1 interaction but only modestly affected 
ssDNA binding. OB-B point mutations also weakened TPP1 association, with the 
deficiency in TPP1 interaction tracking with an inability to limit telomerase 
action. Overall, our results indicate that CTC1-TPP1 interaction plays a key 
role in telomerase termination.

© The Author(s) 2023. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Nucleic 
Acids Research.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gkad237
PMCID: PMC10250220
PMID: 37021555 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


688. Biochem Soc Trans. 2023 Apr 26;51(2):771-781. doi: 10.1042/BST20221175.

Extracellular vesicles in carcinoma microenvironment.

Carvalho-Silva LT(1)(2), Normando AGC(1)(2), Sá JO(1), Dos Santos ES(1)(2), De 
Rossi T(1), Busso-Lopes AF(1), de Oliveira AK(3), Paes Leme AF(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratório Nacional de Biociências - LNBio, Centro Nacional de Pesquisa em 
Energia e Materiais - CNPEM, Campinas, SP 13083-100, Brazil.
(2)Departamento de Diagnóstico Oral, Faculdade de Odontologia de Piracicaba 
Universidade Estadual de Campinas (UNICAMP), Piracicaba, SP 13414-903, Brazil.
(3)Department of Pathology, University of Virginia School of Medicine, 
Charlottesville, VA, 22908, United States.

Cancer is a significant cause of death, precluding increasing life expectancy 
worldwide. That is a multifactorial disease initiated by intrinsic or extrinsic 
factors that induce cell differentiation into cancer cells. However, cancer 
development, progression, and metastasis are not controlled only by cancer 
cells. The entire environment around these cells, named tumor microenvironment 
(TME), influences tumor development and spread. The tumor microenvironment is 
formed by cancer cells and heterogenous nonmalignant cells integrated with a 
complex extracellular matrix. The main cellular components of the TME are 
cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs), T lymphocytes, B cells, tumor-associated 
macrophages (TAMs), dendritic cells (DC), natural killer (NK) cells, 
tumor-associated neutrophils (TANs), Stem Cells, Endothelial Cells and their 
soluble secreted extracellular vesicles (EVs) that modulate cancer cells to 
establish and disseminate. This review provides a recent insight into the role 
of EVs secreted from different populations of the TME associated with the 
initiation and progression of carcinoma.

© 2023 The Author(s). Published by Portland Press Limited on behalf of the 
Biochemical Society.

DOI: 10.1042/BST20221175
PMID: 37021691 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


689. Schweiz Arch Tierheilkd. 2023 Apr;165(4):235-0. doi: 10.17236/sat00390.

[Life expectancy of mesocephalic, dolichocephalic and brachycephalic dog breeds 
in Switzerland].

[Article in German; Abstract available in German from the publisher]

Reich L(1), Hartnack S(2), Fitzi-Rathgen J(3), Reichler IM(1).

Author information:
(1)Abteilung Kleintierreproduktion, Vetsuisse Fakultät, Universität Zürich.
(2)Abteilung für Epidemiologie, Vetsuisse-Fakultät, Universität Zürich.
(3)Fachstelle Tierversuche und Tierärztliche Beratungsstelle, Schweizer 
Tierschutz STS, Basel.

Lifespan and time of death of dogs died in Switzerland between 2016 and 2020 
were evaluated in order to increase the awareness of the public to animal 
welfare-related consequences of extreme brachycephalic breeding and to clarify 
the torture breeding problem of dogs suffering from brachycephalic obstructive 
airway syndrome (BOAS). Skull shape, body size, country of origin and altitude 
of the registered place of residence at the time of death were analysed in a set 
of anonymized data from the national animal database Amicus as potential factors 
influencing the life expectancy. Death rate during summer months and the 
altitude of the reported place of residence at death were analysed in relation 
to the skull shape to demonstrate the heat intolerance of brachycephalic dog 
breeds. The final dataset included 137 469 dogs. The average age of death of the 
study population was 11,8 years, mixed breeds reaching a higher average age of 
12,4 years than purebred dogs with 11,5 years. Bodyweight classification, skull 
shape and the origin of the dogs had a significant effect on the average 
lifespan. Giant breeds reached with 9,0 years the lowest mean age compared to 
the other bodyweight categories. The mean life expectancy of brachycephalic dogs 
was 9,8 years, i.e., 2,1 and 1,7 years less than mesocephalic and 
dolichocephalic dogs, respectively. Brachycephalic dogs and dogs imported from 
abroad showed increased mortality at a young age.

Publisher: Um die Sensibilität der Schweizer Bevölkerung gegenüber 
tierschutzrelevanten Folgen der Extremzucht Brachyzephalie zu erhöhen und dabei 
insbesondere die Qualzuchtproblematik unter BOAS (Brachyzephales Obstruktives 
Atemwegssyndrom) leidender Hunde zu verdeutlichen, evaluierten wir die 
Lebensdauer und den Todeszeitpunkt von in der Schweiz zwischen 2016 und 2020 
verstorbenen Hunden. Neben Kopfform wurden Körpergrösse, das Herkunftsland sowie 
die Höhenlage des gemeldeten Wohnorts zum Todeszeitpunkt als potenzielle 
Einflussfaktoren auf die Zielgrösse, das erreichte Lebensalter, in einem Satz 
anonymisierter Daten der nationalen Tierdatenbank Amicus ausgewertet. Um die 
Hitzeintoleranz brachyzephaler Hunderassen aufzuzeigen, untersuchten wir die 
Todesrate in den Sommermonaten sowie die Höhenlage des gemeldeten Wohnorts zum 
Zeitpunkt des Todes der Hunde in Abhängigkeit von ihrer Kopfform. Der endgültige 
Datensatz enthielt 137 469 Hunde. Das durchschnittlich erreichte Lebensalter 
aller Hunde betrug 11,8 Jahre, dabei wiesen Mischlingshunde mit 12,4 Jahren ein 
höheres durchschnittliches Lebensalter auf als die reinrassigen Hunde mit 11,5 
Jahren. Die Gewichtskategorie, die Kopfform sowie die Herkunft der Hunde hatten 
einen deutlichen Effekt auf das durchschnittlich erreichte Lebensalter. 
Riesenrassen erreichten mit 9,0 Jahren im Vergleich zu den übrigen 
Gewichtskategorien das geringste mittlere Lebensalter. Die mittlere 
Lebenserwartung brachyzephaler Hunde war mit 9,8 Jahren im Mittel 2,1 und 1,7 
Jahre geringer als die von Hunden mit meso- bzw. dolichozephaler Kopfform. 
Sowohl Hunde mit einer brachyzephalen Kopfform als auch Hunde, die aus dem 
Ausland importiert wurden, zeigten eine erhöhte Sterblichkeit in jungen Jahren.

Publisher: La durée de vie et le moment du décès des chiens morts en Suisse 
entre 2016 et 2020 ont été évalués afin de sensibiliser le public aux 
conséquences sur le bien-être animal de l’élevage brachycéphale extrême et de 
clarifier le problème des pratiques d’élevage cruelles des chiens souffrant du 
syndrome obstructif respiratoire brachycéphale (SORB). Outre la forme du crâne, 
la taille du corps, le pays d’origine et l’altitude du lieu de résidence 
enregistré au moment de la mort ont été analysés dans un ensemble de données 
anonymisées provenant de la base de données nationale sur les animaux Amicus, en 
tant que facteurs potentiels influençant la taille et le vieillissement. Le taux 
de mortalité pendant les mois d’été et l’altitude du lieu de résidence déclaré 
au moment du décès ont été analysés pour démontrer l’intolérance à la chaleur 
des races de chiens brachycéphales. L’ensemble de données final comprenait 
137 469 chiens. L’âge moyen du décès de la population étudiée était de 11,8 ans, 
les chiens croisés atteignant un âge moyen plus élevé de 12,4 ans que les chiens 
de race pure avec 11,5 ans. La catégorie de poids, la forme du crâne et 
l’origine des chiens ont eu un effet significatif sur la durée de vie moyenne. 
Les races géantes ont atteint avec 9,0 ans l’âge moyen le plus bas par rapport 
aux autres catégories de poids. L’espérance de vie moyenne des chiens 
brachycéphales était de 9,8 ans, soit 2,1 et 1,7 ans de moins que celle des 
chiens mésocéphales et dolichocéphales. Les chiens brachycéphales et les chiens 
importés de l’étranger présentaient une mortalité accrue dans leur jeune âge.

Publisher: La speranza di vita e l’ora del decesso di cani brachicefali morti in 
Svizzera tra il 2016 e il 2020 sono state valutate alfine di aumentare la 
sensibilità dell’opinione pubblica svizzera sulle conseguenze relative al 
benessere degli animali nell’allevamento intensivo delle razze brachicefalie e, 
in particolare, per evidenziare il problema dell’allevamento abusivo di cani 
affetti dalla sindrome brachicefalica ostruttiva delle vie aeree (BOAS). La 
forma del cranio, le dimensioni del corpo, il luogo di origine e l’altitudine 
del luogo di residenza registrato al momento del decesso sono stati analizzati 
in una serie di dati anonimizzati provenienti dalla banca dati nazionale degli 
animali Amicus come potenziali fattori che influenzerebbero le dimensioni del 
corpo e l’invecchiamento. Il tasso di mortalità durante i mesi estivi e 
l’altitudine del luogo di residenza dichiarato al momento del decesso sono stati 
analizzati per dimostrare l’intolleranza al calore delle razze canine 
brachicefale. Il set di dati finale comprendeva 137 469 cani. L’età media al 
decesso di tutta la popolazione inclusa nello studio era di 11,8 anni e le razze 
miste hanno raggiunto un’età media più alta di 12,4 anni rispetto ai cani di 
razza pura con 11,5 anni. La categoria del peso corporeo, la forma del cranio e 
l’origine dei cani hanno avuto un effetto significativo sulla durata media della 
vita. Con 9,0 anni, le razze giganti hanno raggiunto l’età media più bassa 
rispetto alle altre categorie di peso corporeo. L’aspettativa di vita media dei 
cani brachicefali era di 9,8 anni, 2,1 e 1,7 anni in meno rispetto ai cani 
mesocefali e dolicocefali. I cani brachicefali e quelli importati dall’estero 
hanno mostrato una maggiore mortalità in giovane età.

DOI: 10.17236/sat00390
PMID: 37021744 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


690. Bladder infection: Do herbal remedies help with recurrent bladder infection?
 IQWiG Reports – Commission No. HT20-01 [Internet].

Cologne (Germany): Institute for Quality and Efficiency in Health Care (IQWiG); 
2022 Feb 24.
Institute for Quality and Efficiency in Health Care: Extracts.

RESEARCH QUESTION OF THE HTA REPORT: The aims of this investigation are to: 
assess the benefit of treatment with herbal remedies (phytopreparations) in 
comparison with different or no treatment in adult patients (16 years and older) 
with uncomplicated, recurrent lower urinary tract infections (UTIs) regarding 
patient-relevant outcomes, determine the costs (intervention costs) and assess 
the cost effectiveness of phytopreparations in comparison with different or no 
treatment in adult patients (16 years and older) with uncomplicated recurrent 
lower UTIs and review ethical, social, legal, and organizational aspects 
associated with the medical intervention.
CONCLUSION OF THE HTA REPORT: The benefit of phytopreparations in comparison 
with different or no treatment in adult women with uncomplicated recurrent lower 
UTIs was investigated by 15 studies meeting this health technology assessment 
(HTA) report’s inclusion criteria. Among the 34 plants (or part components) 
which had been predefined as being relevant for this HTA report, 9 were 
investigated in the included studies. Most studies examined preparations 
containing cranberry. This results in an indication of benefit for cranberry in 
comparison with placebo regarding the reduction of recurrence rate and a hint 
regarding the extension of the interval until the first recurrence. There is a 
hint of lesser benefit of cranberry regarding recurrence prevention when 
compared with antibiotics, specifically trimethoprim sulphamethoxazole. Aside 
from cranberry, isolated study results are available on preparations containing 
the following plants (or plant components): 1 preparation with horseradish root 
and nasturtium herb, 1 preparation with uva ursi leaves and birch, 1 preparation 
with uva ursi leaves and dandelion, and 1 preparation with lovage root, rosemary 
leaves, and common centaury herb. The assessment found a hint of benefit for a 
preparation made from uva ursi leaves and dandelion in comparison with placebo 
as well as a hint of added benefit (in combination with antibiotics) of a 
preparation made of lovage root, rosemary leaves, and common centaury herb 
versus antibiotic monotherapy for recurrence prevention. Very few data are 
available for the outcomes of health-related quality of life, development of 
complicated infections, specific symptoms, and mortality. For mortality and 
health-related quality of life, this results in no hint of benefit for cranberry 
preparations in comparison with placebo. For specific symptoms, there is no hint 
of benefit for a preparation made of lovage root, rosemary leaves, and common 
centaury herb in combination with antibiotics when compared with antibiotic 
monotherapy. No further conclusions on benefit can be drawn regarding these 
outcomes. No adverse events data are available for comparing a preparation made 
of lovage root, rosemary leaves, and common centaury herb in combination with 
antibiotics versus antibiotic monotherapy; no conclusion can be drawn on 
benefit. For all other comparisons investigated herein, the reported adverse 
events show no hint of greater or lesser harm from one of the investigated 
preparations in comparison with the respective comparator intervention. The 
transferability of the benefit assessment’s results to Germany is limited by the 
fact that not all herbal preparations investigated in the benefit assessment 
correspond to commercial products available in Germany. More than half of the 
cranberry monopreparations and 2 of the preparations without cranberry (uva ursi 
leaves and birch as well as uva ursi leaves and dandelion) were either 
impossible to find, inadequately described, or no longer (if ever) available on 
the market. With regard to the determination of costs, the available studies and 
data placed the focus on long-term prevention. Among the investigated 
phytopreparations, the cost of 6 months of treatment with these foods or dietary 
supplements ranged from €60 to €270; these costs must be borne by the patients 
out of pocket. For other herbal medicinal products which were classified as 
pharmaceuticals by the LAUER-TAXE® pharmaceuticals database, costs equalled €110 
to €300; some of these costs were covered by health insurance companies on a 
case-by-case basis. For “general preventive measures and non-antibiotic 
therapies” which, according to the S3 guideline, are to be exhausted before 
potentially initiating long-term preventive antibiotic treatment, prevention 
with phytopreparations therefore incurs potential semiannual costs to be paid by 
patients in the two-digit to low three-digit range. For 6 months of long-term 
preventive therapy with antibiotics, in contrast, patients incurred costs of (a 
maximum of) about €20 to €35 (at total costs of up to €130). According to cost 
effectiveness literature on cranberry prophylaxis (compared with placebo), the 
enhanced effectiveness with respect to recurrence prevention is juxtaposed by 
higher direct costs. Cranberry’s lower effectiveness in recurrence prevention 
when compared with antibiotic prevention is paired with higher cost (than 
antibiotics), making cranberry prophylaxis the predominant alternative over 
antibiotics. However, this calculation ignored the potential costs of antibiotic 
resistance. Due to poor transferability and substantial deficiencies in quality 
and transparency, however, the identified health economic evaluations are of 
very limited use for assessing cost effectiveness in the present HTA report. In 
any case, important factors influencing the cost effectiveness of cranberry 
prophylaxis in comparison with antibiotic prophylaxis were found to be 
effectiveness in recurrence prevention (and the associated cost savings), the 
cost of the preparations themselves, and potential cost savings achieved by 
preventing antibiotic resistance. The legal situation is complex because 
preparations made from the investigated plants (or plant components) may be 
marketed as either herbal medicinal products or dietary supplements. Unlike 
prescription drugs, dietary supplements do not require proof of efficacy, while 
herbal medicinal products do so only to a limited extent. For patients, very 
similar packaging often additionally complicates determining a preparation’s 
product category. Herbal medicinal products are reimbursed by health insurance 
funds only in isolated cases, and dietary supplements are never reimbursed. This 
aspect is relevant from an ethical and social perspective because many patients 
would like to use herbal medicinal products to treat lower UTIs, but they have 
to pay for them out of pocket. For society, potentially reducing antibiotic use 
via herbal medicinal products is a highly relevant aspect. Since current 
guidelines recommend antibiotics for the long-term prevention of lower UTIs only 
in exceptional cases, said societal aspect primarily concerns the acute 
treatment of lower UTIs. However, no study data are available on the efficacy of 
herbal medicinal products in the acute care of lower UTIs in women with 
recurrent uncomplicated lower UTIs. Further research is needed: High-quality 
studies providing detailed information on the investigated preparations’ 
composition would allow making more definitive statements regarding the 
effectiveness and transferability of these conclusions to preparations available 
in Germany. If appropriately disseminated, this information might help affected 
patients navigate through the very nontransparent market of herbal medicinal 
products and dietary supplements. Studies proving effectiveness are also a 
prerequisite for approval as prescription-only drugs and hence for general 
reimbursability. This approval, in turn, would give all affected patients easy 
access to (effective) PPs. Two currently ongoing studies (which both investigate 
cranberry preparations) might supply additional data relevant for the research 
question.
CONCLUSION IN TERMS OF ADDRESSING THE CONCERNS OF THOSE PROPOSING THE TOPIC: The 
preventive use of cranberry preparations may be a good option for women with 
uncomplicated recurrent lower UTIs because such use is associated with an 
indication of benefit for relapse prevention in comparison with placebo, and the 
S3 guideline recommends preventive use of antibiotics only in exceptional cases. 
Due to very limited data being available, it is impossible to assess whether the 
preventive use of other phytopreparations may be a good option. No data are 
available on the use of cranberry preparations or other phytopreparations in the 
acute treatment of symptomatic episodes experienced by women with uncomplicated 
recurrent lower UTIs.

© IQWiG (Institute for Quality and Efficiency in Health Care).

PMID: 37023241


691. Child Obes. 2023 Apr 6. doi: 10.1089/chi.2023.0005. Online ahead of print.

Wearable Devices Beyond Activity Trackers in Youth with Obesity: Summary of 
Options.

Chimatapu SN(1), Mittelman SD(1), Habib M(1), Osuna-Garcia A(2), Vidmar AP(3).

Author information:
(1)Division of Endocrinology, Department of Pediatrics, David Geffen School of 
Medicine, University of California Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(2)Department of Health and Life Sciences Librarian, Nursing, Biomedical 
Library, University of California Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(3)Center for Endocrinology, Diabetes, and Metabolism, Department of Pediatrics, 
Children's Hospital Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, USA.

Background: Current treatment protocols to prevent and treat pediatric obesity 
focus on prescriptive lifestyle interventions. However, treatment outcomes are 
modest due to poor adherence and heterogeneity in responses. Wearable 
technologies offer a unique solution as they provide real-time biofeedback that 
could improve adherence to and sustainability of lifestyle interventions. To 
date, all reviews on wearable devices in pediatric obesity cohorts have only 
explored biofeedback from physical activity trackers. Hence, we conducted a 
scoping review to (1) catalog other biofeedback wearable devices available in 
this cohort, (2) document various metrics collected from these devices, and (3) 
assess safety and adherence to these devices. Methods: This scoping review was 
conducted adhering to the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and 
Meta-Analyses extension for Scoping Reviews checklist. Fifteen eligible studies 
examined the use of biofeedback wearable devices beyond activity trackers in 
pediatric cohorts, with an emphasis on feasibility of these devices. Results: 
Included studies varied in sample sizes (15-203) and in ages 6-21 years. 
Wearable devices are being used to capture various metrics of multicomponent 
weight loss interventions to provide more insights about glycemic variability, 
cardiometabolic function, sleep, nutrition, and body fat percentage. High safety 
and adherence rates were reported among these devices. Conclusions: Available 
evidence suggests that wearable devices have several applications aside from 
activity tracking, which could modify health behaviors through real-time 
biofeedback. Overall, these devices appear to be safe and feasible so as to be 
employed in various settings in the pediatric age group to prevent and treat 
obesity.

DOI: 10.1089/chi.2023.0005
PMID: 37023409


692. J Infect Dev Ctries. 2023 Mar 31;17(3):337-344. doi: 10.3855/jidc.17483.

Microorganisms grown in urine cultures and antimicrobial resistance patterns: A 
randomised retrospective analysis from a tertiary hospital.

Demir C(1), Metin S(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Infectious Diseases, Bursa City Hospital, Bursa, Turkey.
(2)Department of Family Medicine, Bursa City Hospital, Bursa, Turkey.

INTRODUCTION: Patients in intensive care units (ICU) are 5-7 times more 
susceptible to infection than other groups, which increases the prevalence of 
hospital-acquired infections and associated sepsis accounting for 60% of deaths. 
Gram-negative bacteria are the most common source of urinary tract infections 
that cause morbidity, mortality, and sepsis in the ICU. The aim of this study is 
to detect the most commonly grown microorganisms and antibiotic resistance in 
urine cultures in the intensive care units of our tertiary city hospital, which 
has more than 20% of the ICU beds in Bursa By this way, we suppose that we will 
contribute to surveillance studies in our province, our country.
METHODOLOGY: Patients who were admitted to Bursa City Hospital adult ICU for 
various reasons between 15.07.2019 and 31.01.2021 and had growth in urine 
cultures were retrospectively screened. The urine culture result, growing 
microorganism, antibiotic used, and resistance status were recorded and analyzes 
were performed according to hospital data.
RESULTS: Gram-negative growth was observed in 85.6% (n = 7707), gram-positive 
growth in 11.6% (n = 1045), and candida fungus growth in 2.8% (n = 249). 
Resistance to at least one antibiotic in urine cultures was observed for 
Acinetobacter (71.8), Klebsiella (51%), Proteus (47.95%), Pseudomonas (33%), E. 
coli (31%) and Enterococci (26.75%), respectively.
DISCUSSION: Developing a health system leads to longer life expectancy, longer 
intensive care treatment, and more frequent interventional procedures. In terms 
of being a resource for empirical treatments, early initiation of empirical 
treatments to control the urinary tract infection disrupts the patient's 
hemodynamics and increases mortality and morbidity.

Copyright (c) 2023 Canan Demir, Salih Metin.

DOI: 10.3855/jidc.17483
PMID: 37023421 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No Conflict of Interest is declared


693. J Invertebr Pathol. 2023 Jun;198:107921. doi: 10.1016/j.jip.2023.107921.
Epub  2023 Apr 5.

Rapid and effective detection of Macrobrachium rosenbergii nodavirus using a 
combination of nucleic acid sequence-based amplification test and 
immunochromatographic strip.

Lin F(1), Shen J(2), Liu Y(3), Huang A(2), Zhang H(2), Chen F(4), Zhou D(2), 
Zhou Y(5), Hao G(6).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Healthy Freshwater Aquaculture, Ministry of Agriculture, 
Zhejiang Institute of Freshwater Fisheries, Huzhou 313001, China; Institute of 
Life Sciences, Jiangsu University, Zhenjiang 212013, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Healthy Freshwater Aquaculture, Ministry of Agriculture, 
Zhejiang Institute of Freshwater Fisheries, Huzhou 313001, China.
(3)Institute of Life Sciences, Jiangsu University, Zhenjiang 212013, China.
(4)Hangzhou Centre for Agricultural Technology Extension, Hangzhou 310017, 
China. Electronic address: chenfan101@163.com.
(5)Institute of Life Sciences, Jiangsu University, Zhenjiang 212013, China. 
Electronic address: zhouyang@ujs.edu.cn.
(6)Key Laboratory of Healthy Freshwater Aquaculture, Ministry of Agriculture, 
Zhejiang Institute of Freshwater Fisheries, Huzhou 313001, China. Electronic 
address: haoguijie@hotmail.com.

Nucleic acid sequence-based amplification (NASBA) provides a fast and convenient 
approach for nucleic acid amplification under isothermal conditions, and its 
combination with an immunoassay-based lateral flow dipstick (LFD) could produce 
a higher detection efficiency for M. rosenbergii nodavirus isolated from China 
(MrNV-chin). In this study, two specific primers and a labelled probe of the 
capsid protein gene of MrNV-chin were constructed. The process of this assay 
mainly included a single-step amplification at a temperature of 41 ℃ for 90 min, 
and hybridization with an FITC-labeled probe for 5 min, with the hybridization 
been required for visual identification during LFD assay. The test results 
indicated that, the NASBA-LFD assay showed sensitivity for 1.0 fg M. rosenbergii 
total RNA with MrNV-chin infection, which was 104 times that of the present 
RT-PCR approach for the detection of MrNV. In addition, no products were created 
for shrimps with infection of other kinds of either DNA or RNA virus, which 
indicated that the NASBA-LFD was specific for MrNV. Therefore, the combination 
of NASBA and LFD is a new alternative detection method for MrNV which is rapid, 
accurate, sensitive and specific without expensive equipment and specialised 
personnel. Early detection of this infectious disease among aquatic organisms 
will help implement efficient therapeutic strategy to prevent its spread, 
enhance animal health and limit loss of aquatic breeds in the event of an 
outbreak.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jip.2023.107921
PMID: 37023892 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


694. Free Radic Biol Med. 2023 Jul;203:24-33. doi: 
10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2023.03.264. Epub 2023 Apr 5.

Transient inhibition of mitochondrial function by chrysin and apigenin prolong 
longevity via mitohormesis in C. elegans.

Cheng Y(1), Hou BH(1), Xie GL(1), Shao YT(1), Yang J(2), Xu C(3).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, School of Life 
Sciences, Nanjing University, Nanjing, 210023, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, School of Life 
Sciences, Nanjing University, Nanjing, 210023, China. Electronic address: 
yangjie@nju.edu.cn.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, School of Life 
Sciences, Nanjing University, Nanjing, 210023, China. Electronic address: 
xuchn@nju.edu.cn.

Mild inhibition of mitochondrial function leads to longevity. Genetic disruption 
of mitochondrial respiratory components either by mutation or RNAi greatly 
extends the lifespan in yeast, worms, and drosophila. This has given rise to the 
idea that pharmacologically inhibiting mitochondrial function would be a 
workable strategy for postponing aging. Toward this end, we used a transgenic 
worm strain that expresses the firefly luciferase enzyme widely to evaluate 
compounds by tracking real-time ATP levels. We identified chrysin and apigenin, 
which reduced ATP production and increased the lifespan of worms. 
Mechanistically, we discovered that chrysin and apigenin transiently inhibit 
mitochondrial respiration and induce an early ROS, and the lifespan-extending 
effect is dependent on transient ROS formation. We also show that AAK-2/AMPK, 
DAF-16/FOXO, and SKN-1/NRF-2 are required for chrysin or apigenin-mediated 
lifespan extension. Temporary increases in ROS levels trigger an adaptive 
response in a mitohormetic way, thereby increasing oxidative stress capacity and 
cellular metabolic adaptation, finally leading to longevity. Thus, chrysin and 
apigenin represent a class of compounds isolated from natural products that 
delay senescence and improve age-related diseases by inhibiting mitochondrial 
function and shed new light on the function of additional plant-derived 
polyphenols in enhancing health and delaying aging. Collectively, this work 
provides an avenue for pharmacological inhibition of mitochondrial function and 
the mechanism underlining their lifespan-extending properties.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2023.03.264
PMID: 37023934 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare no conflict of interest.


695. J Pediatr. 2023 Jul;258:113409. doi: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2023.113409. Epub 2023
Apr  4.

Cost-Effectiveness of Strategies to Identify Children with Perinatally Acquired 
Hepatitis C Infection.

Hall EW(1), Panagiotakopoulos L(2), Wester C(2), Nelson N(2), Sandul AL(2).

Author information:
(1)OHSU-PSU School of Public Health, Oregon Health & Science University, 
Portland, OR. Electronic address: halleri@ohsu.edu.
(2)Division of Viral Hepatitis, National Center for HIV, Viral Hepatitis, STD, 
and TB Prevention, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, GA.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the optimal testing strategy to identify children with 
perinatally acquired hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection.
STUDY DESIGN: We used a decision-tree framework with a Markov disease 
progression model to conduct an economic analysis of 4 strategies, based on 
combinations of type and timing of test: anti-HCV with reflex to HCV RNA at 
18 months among children known to be perinatally exposed (ie, baseline 
comparison strategy); HCV RNA testing at 2-6 months among infants known to be 
perinatally exposed (test strategy 1); universal anti-HCV with reflex to HCV RNA 
at 18 months among all children (test strategy 2); and universal HCV RNA testing 
at 2-6 months among all infants (test strategy 3). We estimated total cost, 
quality-adjusted life years, and disease sequalae for each strategy.
RESULTS: Each of the 3 alternative testing strategies resulted in an increased 
number of children tested and improved health outcomes. HCV RNA testing at 
2-6 months (test strategy 1) was cost-saving and resulted in a population-level 
difference in cost of $469 671. The 2 universal testing strategies resulted in 
an increase in quality-adjusted life years and an increase in total costs.
CONCLUSIONS: Testing of perinatally exposed infants at age 2-6 months with a 
single HCV RNA test will reduce costs and improve health outcomes, preventing 
morbidity and mortality associated with complications from perinatal HCV 
infections.

Copyright © 2023 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2023.113409
PMCID: PMC10448738
PMID: 37023948 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: Author EWH 
reports receiving consulting fees from Merck & Co. for work unrelated to this 
research. All other authors have no conflicts of interest to report. LP, NN, CW, 
and ALS report salaries as employees at the US Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention.


696. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2023 Jul-Dec;23(6):659-669. doi: 
10.1080/14737167.2023.2200938. Epub 2023 Apr 10.

Cost-benefit analysis of stroke rehabilitation in Iran.

Darvishi A(1), Mousavi M(2), Abdi Dezfouli R(1), Shirazikhah M(3), Alizadeh 
Zarei M(4), Hendi H(5), Joghataei F(5), Daroudi R(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Chronic Diseases Research Center, Endocrinology and Metabolism Population 
Sciences Institute, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Social Welfare Management Research Center, University of Social Welfare and 
Rehabilitation Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(3)Social Determinants of Health Research Center, University of Social Welfare 
and Rehabilitation Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(4)Department of Occupational Therapy, School of Rehabilitation Sciences, Iran 
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(5)Department of Social Welfare Management, University of Social Welfare and 
Rehabilitation Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(6)National Center for Health Insurance Research, Tehran, Iran.
(7)Department of Health Management, Policy and Economics, School of Public 
Health, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.

BACKGROUND: The economic evaluation of medication interventions for stroke has 
been the subject of much economic research. This study aimed to examine the 
cost-benefit of multidisciplinary rehabilitation services for stroke survivors 
in Iran.
METHODS: This economic evaluation was conducted from the payer's perspective 
with a lifetime horizon in Iran. A Markov model was designed and 
Quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) were the final outcomes. First, to evaluate 
the cost-effectiveness, the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) was 
calculated. Then, using the average net monetary benefit (NMB) of 
rehabilitation, the average Incremental Net Monetary Benefit (INMB) per patient 
was calculated. The analyses were carried out separately for public and private 
sector tariffs.
RESULTS: While considering public tariffs, the rehabilitation strategy had lower 
costs (US$5320 vs. US$ 6047) and higher QALYs (2.78 vs. 2.61) compared to 
non-rehabilitation. Regarding the private tariffs, the rehabilitation strategy 
had slightly higher costs (US$6,698 vs. US$6,182) but higher QALYs (2.78 vs. 
2.61) compared to no rehabilitation. The average INMB of rehabilitation vs 
non-rehabilitation for each patient was estimated at US$1518 and US$275 based on 
Public and private tariffs, respectively.
CONCLUSION: Providing multidisciplinary rehabilitation services to stroke 
patients was cost-effective and has positive INMBs in public and private 
tariffs.

DOI: 10.1080/14737167.2023.2200938
PMID: 37024292 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


697. BMC Infect Dis. 2023 Apr 6;23(1):218. doi: 10.1186/s12879-023-08186-z.

Nocardia caishijiensis infection: a case report and review of the literature.

Malaguez Webber F(1), Nachiappan A(2), Lau FD(3), Costello C(4), Zane S(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Bridgeport Hospital/Yale New Haven Health, 
Bridgeport, CT, USA. Fabricio.MalaguezWebber@bpthosp.org.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, Bridgeport Hospital/Yale New Haven Health, 
Bridgeport, CT, USA. arunnachiappan@gmail.com.
(3)Department of Internal Medicine, Bridgeport Hospital/Yale New Haven Health, 
Bridgeport, CT, USA.
(4)Department of Pharmacy, Bridgeport Hospital/Yale New Haven Health, 
Bridgeport, CT, USA.

BACKGROUND: Nocardia caishijiensis is a rare soil actinomycete first described 
in Anhui province, China, in 2003. There has been only one reported instance of 
human infection caused by this species in the current literature.
CASE PRESENTATION: We present a case of pulmonary nocardiosis caused by Nocardia 
caishijiensis in a fifty-two-year-old man with human immunodeficiency virus 
infection and concomitant use of high-dose dexamethasone for cervical 
myelopathy, treated successfully with amikacin and 
thrimetroprim-sulfametoxazole, antibiotic resistance pattern was obtained, 
although interpretation may be limited.
CONCLUSION: To our knowledge, this is the first reported case of Nocardia 
caishijiensis infection in humans in North America and the second one in the 
literature, this pathogen should be recognized as a potentially rising etiology 
of nocardiosis, especially in solid organ transplant recipients. This has a 
rising importance as the survival for solid organ recipients continue to rise 
with advance in transplant medicine leading to increased life expectancy in this 
particularly susceptible group.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12879-023-08186-z
PMCID: PMC10080825
PMID: 37024793 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: We do not have any conflicts of interest to 
disclose.


698. Front Cell Dev Biol. 2023 Mar 21;11:1121231. doi:
10.3389/fcell.2023.1121231.  eCollection 2023.

Epigenetic clocks and female fertility timeline: A new approach to an old issue?

Li Piani L(1), Vigano' P(2), Somigliana E(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Sciences and Community Health, Università Degli Studi 
di Milano, Milan, Italy.
(2)Infertility Unit, Fondazione IRCCS Ca' Granda Ospedale Maggiore Policlinico, 
Milan, Italy.

Worldwide increase in life expectancy has boosted research on aging. Overcoming 
the concept of chronological age, higher attention has been addressed to 
biological age, which reflects a person's real health state, and which may be 
the resulting combination of both intrinsic and environmental factors. As 
epigenetics may exert a pivotal role in the biological aging, epigenetic clocks 
were developed. They are based on mathematical models aimed at identifying DNA 
methylation patterns that can define the biological age and that can be adopted 
for different clinical scopes (i.e., estimation of the risks of developing 
age-related disorders or predicting lifespan). Recently, epigenetic clocks have 
gained a peculiar attention in the fertility research field, in particular in 
the female counterpart. The insight into the possible relations between 
epigenetic aging and women's infertility might glean additional information 
about certain conditions that are still not completely understood. Moreover, 
they could disclose significant implications for health promotion programs in 
infertile women. Of relevance here is that the impact of biological age and 
epigenetics may not be limited to fertility status but could translate into 
pregnancy issues. Indeed, epigenetic alterations of the mother may transfer into 
the offspring, and pregnancy itself as well as related complications could 
contribute to epigenetic modifications in both the mother and newborn. However, 
even if the growing interest has culminated in the conspicuous production of 
studies on these topics, a global overview and the availability of validated 
instruments for diagnosis is still missing. The present narrative review aims to 
explore the possible bonds between epigenetic aging and fertility timeline. In 
the "infertility" section, we will discuss the advances on epigenetic clocks 
focusing on the different tissues examined (endometrium, peripheral blood, 
ovaries). In the "pregnancy" section, we will discuss the results obtained from 
placenta, umbilical cord and peripheral blood. The possible role of epigenetic 
aging on infertility mechanisms and pregnancy outcomes represents a question 
that may configure epigenetic clock as a bond between two apparently opposite 
worlds: infertility and pregnancy.

Copyright © 2023 Li Piani, Vigano' and Somigliana.

DOI: 10.3389/fcell.2023.1121231
PMCID: PMC10070683
PMID: 37025178

Conflict of interest statement: ES received personal honoraria to give talks at 
international meetings from Theramex and Merck-Serono, received a donation (US 
machine) from Merck-Serono for the ART unit and handled grants of research from 
Ferring and Theramex. The remaining authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


699. Indian J Ophthalmol. 2023 Apr;71(4):1647-1651. doi: 10.4103/IJO.IJO_2765_22.

Ocular disease as the presenting sign of rheumatoid arthritis - An observational 
case series.

Ravulaparthi G(1), Bandla B(1), Visala NV(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Mamata Academy of Medical Sciences, Bachupally, 
Hyderabad, Telangana, India.
(2)Department of General Medicine, Mamata Academy of Medical Sciences, 
Bachupally, Hyderabad, Telangana, India.

Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is an inflammatory auto-immune multi-system disorder 
affecting the synovial joints. Ocular manifestations occur in a significant 
proportion of patients with RA. Although there are literature studies available 
indicating that ocular involvement can be the presenting sign in RA, reports 
available are sparse. Our case series is a report of seven patients presenting 
with ocular manifestations of RA. It highlights the fact that familiarity with 
the characteristic features of RA among ophthalmologists and physicians helps in 
making a timely diagnosis, assessing the disease activity, and understanding how 
