opportunities to receive medical assistance, to create a comprehensive program 
for the prevention of hypertension. The creation of a complex functional and 
organizational model of prevention of arterial hypertension among medical 
workers was to increase the quality and effectiveness of prevention of 
hypertension for the specified contingent, taking into account its 
specificities. The model is aimed at identifying and preventing risk factors for 
the development of hypertension and its complications. Thanks to the 
implementation of primary and secondary prevention measures, it is expected to 
mitigate the medical and social consequences of hypertension - a decrease in 
morbidity, mortality, disability, an increase in the average life expectancy, 
and an increase in the working capacity of medical personnel. The subject of the 
prevention of hypertension is the management of the medical institution. The 
organizational and managerial function is entrusted to the management, which 
must supervise the organization and conduct of preventive medical examinations, 
ensure proper working conditions, promote the creation of an electronic register 
of medical personnel, and provide conditions for their recovery. A trusted 
doctor (therapist) of the institution communicates directly with the staff of 
the medical institution, who must take care of their state of health. According 
to the proposed model, a trusted (therapist) doctor, who has the most complete 
information contained in the medical cards of the staff, creates an electronic 
register of doctors and nurses. The information-analytical function of a trusted 
(therapist) doctor, psychologist is carried out with the participation of the 
information-analytical department of the institution, which helps in the 
development of the register of medical workers, the formation of a list of 
quality indicators for the analysis of the effectiveness of preventive measures. 
Summarizing the results of own research and data from the literature made it 
possible to outline conceptual approaches and promising directions for 
optimizing the prevention of the development of hypertension and its 
complications in medical workers. The basis for creating an organizational and 
functional model of prevention of hypertension was the following conceptual 
components: Normative and legal, which provides for strict compliance with the 
orders of the Ministry of Health regarding preventive medical examinations of 
medical workers; European recommendations on the prevention of cardiovascular 
diseases and 2016 and the domestic unified clinical protocol of medical care 
"Prevention of cardiovascular diseases" of 2016. Personnel and organizational, 
which provides for the presence in the medical institution of a trusted doctor 
(therapist), a psychologist, who must rely on the control of the health of the 
medical staff of the institution, the organization of preventive measures and 
the provision of appropriate medical assistance to medical workers if necessary. 
Material and technical, which involves the creation of conditions for the 
implementation of preventive and curative measures (availability of relaxation 
rooms, provision of personnel with material assistance, sanatorium-resort 
treatment). Informational and communicative, which involves informing all 
branches of the medical institution, and first of all, their management, about 
the problems of the medical staff (material, social, household, etc.) with the 
aim of creating proper working conditions for the medical staff, a favorable 
psychological microclimate. Control and monitoring, which involves the use of 
indicators of the quality of the provision of medical care to assess the 
effectiveness of treatment and preventive measures for the prevention of 
hypertension in medical workers. The main approaches to the prevention of 
arterial hypertension (or hypertensive disease) are well-known and outlined in 
many scientific works and guidance documents. But the general scheme of 
prevention of hypertensive disease needs some correction and the creation of an 
organizational and functional model of prevention of hypertensive disease 
specifically for medical workers in view of the specifics of their profession.

PMID: 37354682 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


742. Contemp Clin Trials. 2023 Aug;131:107271. doi: 10.1016/j.cct.2023.107271.
Epub  2023 Jun 22.

Recruiting experiences of NIH-funded principal investigators for community-based 
health behavior interventions during the COVID-19 pandemic.

Seguin-Fowler RA(1), Demment M(2), Folta SC(3), Graham M(4), Hanson K(5), 
Maddock JE(6), Patterson MS(7).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Advancing Health through Agriculture (IHA), Department of 
Nutrition, College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, Texas A&M University 
System, 1500 Research Parkway, Centeq Building B, College Station, TX 77845, 
United States of America. Electronic address: r.seguin-fowler@ag.tamu.edu.
(2)Texas A&M AgriLife Research and Extension Center, 17360 Coit Rd, Dallas, TX 
75252, United States of America. Electronic address: 
margaret.demment@ag.tamu.edu.
(3)Friedman School of Nutrition Science and Policy, Tufts University, 150 
Harrison Ave, Boston, MA 02111, United States of America. Electronic address: 
sara.folta@tufts.edu.
(4)Texas A&M AgriLife Research and Extension Center, 17360 Coit Rd, Dallas, TX 
75252, United States of America. Electronic address: 
meredith.graham@ag.tamu.edu.
(5)Department of Public & Ecosystem Health, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 4853, 
United States of America. Electronic address: kh289@cornell.edu.
(6)Department of Environmental and Occupational Health, Texas A&M University, 
College Station, TX 77843, United States of America. Electronic address: 
maddock@tamu.edu.
(7)Department of Health Behavior, Texas A&M University, 1266 TAMU, College 
Station, TX 77843, United States of America. Electronic address: 
megpatterson@tamu.edu.

Successful recruitment into randomized trials and interventions is essential to 
advance scientific knowledge to improve health. This rapid assessment study 
explored how the COVID-19 pandemic affected participant recruitment overall, 
identified how it exacerbated existing challenges to recruit hard-to-reach 
populations, and described how NIH-funded Principal Investigators (PIs) 
responded to COVID-era recruitment challenges. A cross-sectional survey of 
NIH-funded PIs conducting interventions and trials related to health behaviors 
was conducted in 2022. The survey was completed by 52 PIs, most of whom were 
highly experienced in this type of research. Eighteen PIs reported it was very 
difficult to recruit participants now (39.1%) compared to before COVID-19 when 
only one did (2.2%). PIs reported changing recruitment and data collection 
methods (29.4%), increasing staff dedicated to recruitment (29.4%), and 
increasing participant compensation (23.5%). Recruitment methods shifted from 
in-person activities to social media and other electronic communications. 
Barriers to recruitment included reluctance to participate in research, COVID-19 
protocols and precautions, overwhelmed community partners, staff burnout and 
turnover, and limited access to technology for some populations that were 
already hard to reach. Facilitators to recruitment consisted of increased access 
and ability to use remote technologies, use of social media, strong community 
ties, and wanting to be part of something positive. PIs perceived recruitment as 
much more difficult after the onset of COVID-19, though research teams were able 
to pivot to more online and remote options. These tools may have a lasting 
impact in modernizing recruitment, data collection, and intervention techniques 
in future trials.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cct.2023.107271
PMCID: PMC10286519
PMID: 37354992 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


743. BMJ Open. 2023 Jun 23;13(6):e063103. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2022-063103.

Is multimodal occupational therapy in addition to usual care cost-effective in 
people with thumb carpometacarpal osteoarthritis? A cost-utility analysis of a 
randomised controlled trial.

Tveter AT(1), Kleven L(2), Osteras N(3), Nossum R(4), Eide REM(5), Klokkeide 
Å(6), Matre KH(5), Olsen M(6), Kjeken I(3).

Author information:
(1)Center for Treatment in Rheumatic and Musculoskeletal Diseases (REMEDY), 
Norwegian National Advisory Unit on Rehabilitation in Rheumatology, 
Diakonhjemmet Hospital, Oslo, Norway a.t.tveter@medisin.uio.no.
(2)Reviews and Health Technology Assessments, Norwegian Institute of Public 
Health, Oslo, Norway.
(3)Center for Treatment in Rheumatic and Musculoskeletal Diseases (REMEDY), 
Norwegian National Advisory Unit on Rehabilitation in Rheumatology, 
Diakonhjemmet Hospital, Oslo, Norway.
(4)Department of Clinical services, St Olavs Hospital, Trondheim University 
Hospital, Trondheim, Norway.
(5)Department of Rheumatology, Haukeland University Hospital, Bergen, Norway.
(6)Department of Rheumatology, Haugesund Sanitary Association Rheumatism 
Hospital, Haugesund, Norway.

OBJECTIVE: The aim was to evaluate the cost-utility of a 3-month multimodal 
occupational therapy intervention in addition to usual care in patients with 
thumb carpometacarpal osteoarthritis (CMC1 OA).
METHODS: A cost-utility analysis was performed alongside a multicentre 
randomised controlled trial including three rheumatology departments in Norway. 
A total of 180 patients referred to surgical consultation due to CMC1 OA were 
randomised to either multimodal occupational therapy including patient 
education, hand exercises, assistive devices and orthoses (n=90), or usual care 
receiving only information on OA (n=90). The outcome measure was 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) derived from the generic questionnaire 
EQ-5D-5L over a 2-year period. Resource use and health-related quality of life 
of the patients were prospectively collected at baseline, 4, 18 and 24 months. 
Costs were estimated by taking a healthcare and societal perspective. The 
results were expressed as incremental cost-effectiveness ratios, and a 
probabilistic sensitivity analysis with 1000 replications following 
intention-to-treat principle was done to account for uncertainty in the 
analysis.
RESULTS: During the 2-year follow-up period, patients receiving multimodal 
occupational therapy gained 0.06 more QALYs than patients receiving usual care. 
The mean (SD) direct costs were €3227 (3546) in the intervention group and €4378 
(5487) in the usual care group, mean difference €-1151 (95% CI -2564, 262). The 
intervention was the dominant treatment with a probability of 94.5% being 
cost-effective given the willingness-to-pay threshold of €27 500.
CONCLUSIONS: The within-trial analysis demonstrated that the multimodal 
occupational therapy in addition to usual care was cost-effective at 2 years in 
patients with CMC1 OA.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NCT01794754.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2023. Re-use permitted under CC BY. Published 
by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2022-063103
PMCID: PMC10314563
PMID: 37355263 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


744. J Cyst Fibros. 2023 Sep;22(5):847-850. doi: 10.1016/j.jcf.2023.06.002. Epub
2023  Jun 23.

Weight a minute: Exploring the effect on weight and body composition after the 
initiation of elexacaftor/tezacaftor/ivacaftor in adults with CF.

Proud D(1), Duckers J(2).

Author information:
(1)All Wales Adult Cystic Fibrosis Centre, Wales, UK. Electronic address: 
david.proud@wales.nhs.uk.
(2)All Wales Adult Cystic Fibrosis Centre, Wales, UK.

BACKGROUND: Life expectancy for people with CF (PwCF) continues to increase. 
However, a trend of overweight and obesity is emerging along with concern of 
developing comorbitities. Body composition (BC) is associated with several 
health indices. However, body mass index (BMI) does not provide information on 
BC.
METHODS: BMI, fat mass (FM), fat free mass (FFM), using bioelectrical impedance, 
lung function and sweat chloride (SwCl) were assessed in adult PwCF in routine 
clinic before and after commencement of the CFTR modulator 
Elexacaftor/Tezacaftor/Ivacaftor.
RESULTS: 109 PwCF (76 male) underwent assessments at both time points. In all 
PwCF a significant upward trend in BMI was observed (p < 0.001). Males 
significantly gained more FFM compared to females (p0.03), whilst prevalence of 
normal weight obesity increased primarily in females (25-38%).
CONCLUSION: Routine BC assessment identifies individuals with elevated FM or 
depleted FFM enabling individualised care with the focus of optimising BC.

Copyright © 2023. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcf.2023.06.002
PMID: 37355345 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: David Proud reports a relationship 
with Vertex Pharmaceuticals Incorporated that includes: consulting or advisory. 
Jamie Duckers reports a relationship with Vertex Pharmaceuticals Incorporated 
that includes: consulting or advisory, speaking and lecture fees, and travel 
reimbursement. J Duckers reports a relationship with Chiesi Pharmaceuticals Inc 
that includes: speaking and lecture fees. J Duckers reports a relationship with 
Insmed Inc that includes: consulting or advisory and funding grants.


745. Sci Rep. 2023 Jun 24;13(1):10276. doi: 10.1038/s41598-023-37438-w.

Microbial fertilizer regulates C:N:P stoichiometry and alleviates phosphorus 
limitation in flue-cured tobacco planting soil.

Feng J(#)(1), Chen L(#)(2), Xia T(1), Ruan Y(3), Sun X(4), Wu T(1), Zhong Y(1), 
Shao X(5), Tang Z(6).

Author information:
(1)College of Agricultural and Life Sciences, Kunming University, Kunming, 
650214, Yunnan, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Ecosystem Network Observation and Modeling, Center for 
Forest Ecosystem Studies and Qianyanzhou Ecological Station, Institute of 
Geographic Sciences and Natural Resources Research, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 
Beijing, 100101, China.
(3)College of Plant Protection, Yunnan Agricultural University, Kunming, 650201, 
Yunnan, China.
(4)Agronomy College, Qingdao Agricultural University, Qingdao, 266000, Shandong, 
China.
(5)Honghe Branch of Yunnan Tobacco Company, Mile, 652300, Yunnan, China.
(6)College of Agricultural and Life Sciences, Kunming University, Kunming, 
650214, Yunnan, China. tangzuo1029@126.com.
(#)Contributed equally

Fertilization can be optimized and managed during the flue-cured tobacco growing 
period by studying the response of soil and microbial biomass stoichiometric 
characteristics to fertilization. In this study, we investigated the effect of 
compound fertilizers combined with microbial fertilizer treatments on the 
stoichiometric characteristics of the rhizosphere soil and the limitations of 
microbial resources during the flue-cured tobacco growing period. The results 
indicated that soil and microbial C:N:P varied greatly with the growing period. 
The effect of sampling time was usually greater than that of fertilization 
treatment, and microbial C:N:P did not vary with the soil resource 
stoichiometric ratio. The microbial metabolism of the tobacco-growing soil was 
limited by phosphorus after extending the growing period, and phosphorus 
limitation gradually increased from the root extension to the maturation periods 
but decreased at harvest. The rhizosphere soil microbial nitrogen and phosphorus 
limitations were mainly affected by soil water content, soil pH, microbial 
biomass carbon, and the ratio of microbial biomass carbon to microbial biomass 
phosphorus. Applying microbial fertilizer reduced phosphorus limitation. 
Therefore, applying microbial fertilizer regulated the limitation of microbial 
resources by affecting the soil and microbial biomass C:N:P in flue-cured 
tobacco rhizosphere soils.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-023-37438-w
PMCID: PMC10290673
PMID: 37355746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


746. J Assoc Physicians India. 2023 May;71(5):11-12. doi:
10.5005/japi-11001-0250.

Program to Enhance Well-being and Psychospiritual Understanding Implications in 
Indian Medical Care Perspective.

Pal A(1), Mukhopadhyay P(2), Pal ND(3).

Author information:
(1)Consultant, Vivekananda Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS); Corresponding 
Author.
(2)Assistant Superintendent, Kalyani ESI Hospital.
(3)Consultant, Sankara Netralaya, Kolkata, West Bengal, India.

BACKGROUND: Spirituality is an important dimension of life. The medical 
practitioner's well-being is an under-appreciated priority in India. As research 
on spirituality is minimal, this study attempts to introduce an online 6-week 
Eastern spirituality-based educational program for physicians. The primary aim 
was to see the effects of the intervention on the well-being of the 
participants. The secondary aim was to form an opinion about an extension to 
medical practice.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A total of 60 medical practitioners were randomized into 
two groups- one attended the spirituality sessions while the other placebo 
"self-care" sessions. Quantitative outcome measures were Warwick-Edinburg Mental 
Well-being Scale (WEMWBS) and World Health Organization (WHO) Well-being Index 
(WHO-5) noted pre and postprogram. Qualitative data was collected to support the 
quantitative outcomes. Statistical tests used were unpaired and paired t-tests 
for quantitative data. A 5-point Likert scale and Cochran's Q test were used for 
the qualitative data.
RESULTS: In the spirituality group, postsession WEMWBS and WHO-5 scores improved 
with p &lt; 0.0001 and p = 0.0033, respectively. Regarding qualitative data, 
94.44% of physicians "agreed/strongly agreed" in favor of the benefits of 
sessions with p = 0.0242 and Q = 5.0793. A total of 86.67% of physicians felt 
the sessions have helped them to understand other's spirituality-related 
problems and made them more confident to discuss spirituality with others.
CONCLUSION: The online Eastern spirituality program had a positive impact on the 
well-being of Indian medical practitioners. There appears to be a potential for 
extension to the medical care setting. The results need to be substantiated by 
further studies.

© Journal of the Association of Physicians of India 2011.

DOI: 10.5005/japi-11001-0250
PMID: 37355814 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


747. Patient Educ Couns. 2023 Sep;114:107863. doi: 10.1016/j.pec.2023.107863.
Epub  2023 Jun 21.

How physicians see nurses' role in decision-making about life-prolonging 
treatments in patients with a short life expectancy: An interview study.

Arends SAM(1), Thodé M(2), Pasman HRW(3), Francke AL(4), Jongerden IP(3).

Author information:
(1)Amsterdam UMC, Location Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, Department of Public 
and Occupational Health, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Amsterdam Public Health 
Research Institute, Aging & Later Life, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Expertise 
Center for Palliative Care, Amsterdam, the Netherlands. Electronic address: 
s.a.arends@amsterdamumc.nl.
(2)Amsterdam UMC, Location Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, Section General 
Internal Medicine, Department of Internal Medicine, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(3)Amsterdam UMC, Location Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, Department of Public 
and Occupational Health, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Amsterdam Public Health 
Research Institute, Aging & Later Life, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Expertise 
Center for Palliative Care, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(4)Amsterdam UMC, Location Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, Department of Public 
and Occupational Health, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Amsterdam Public Health 
Research Institute, Aging & Later Life, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Expertise 
Center for Palliative Care, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Netherlands Institute 
for Health Services Research - Nivel, Utrecht, the Netherlands.

OBJECTIVE: Exploring physicians' views on hospital nurses' role in 
decision-making about potentially life-prolonging treatments in patients with a 
short life expectancy.
METHODS: A qualitative study using semi-structured interviews with hospital 
physicians. Data were collected from May to September 2019 and analyzed 
following principles of thematic analysis.
RESULTS: Fifteen physicians working in different hospitals and specialisms 
participated. Physicians stated that they are responsible for the final decision 
about potentially life-prolonging treatments. They considered nurses' role in 
decision-making to be complementary to the roles of both patients and the 
physicians themselves, especially when there are doubts or complex situations. 
Physicians varied in how important they found nurses' involvement in the 
decision-making process: some physicians saw the involvement of nurses as 
"situation-dependent", while others viewed nurses' involvement as standard 
practice. Furthermore, physicians mentioned practical obstacles to involving 
nurses, like the limited time available to both nurses and physicians 
themselves.
CONCLUSION: Physicians recognize a complementary role for nurses in 
decision-making about potentially life-prolonging treatment, especially in cases 
with doubts or complex situations.
PRACTICE IMPLICATIONS: Physicians and nurses should engage with each other to 
make nurses' involvement less situation-dependent. This inter-professional 
collaboration regarding decision-making about life-prolonging treatments should 
be stimulated, supported and maintained.

Copyright © 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pec.2023.107863
PMID: 37356117 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest All authors 
declare that they have no competing interests. (Competing interests are defined 
as those potential influences that may undermine the objectivity, integrity, or 
perceived conflict of interest of a publication. Interactions that occur within 
5 years before submission date of an article are pertinent).


748. Soc Sci Med. 2023 Jul;329:115976. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2023.115976. Epub
 2023 May 26.

Different health systems - Different mortality outcomes? Regional disparities in 
avoidable mortality across German-speaking Europe, 1992-2019.

Mühlichen M(1), Lerch M(2), Sauerberg M(3), Grigoriev P(3).

Author information:
(1)Federal Institute for Population Research (BIB), Friedrich-Ebert-Allee 4, 
65185, Wiesbaden, Germany. Electronic address: michael.muehlichen@bib.bund.de.
(2)Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Lausanne (EPFL), Route Cantonale, 
1015, Lausanne, Switzerland.
(3)Federal Institute for Population Research (BIB), Friedrich-Ebert-Allee 4, 
65185, Wiesbaden, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Evaluating the impact of health systems on premature mortality 
across different countries is a very challenging task, as it is hardly possible 
to disentangle it from the influence of contextual factors such as cultural 
differences. In this respect, the German-speaking area in Central Europe 
(Austria, Germany, South Tyrol and large parts of Switzerland) represents a 
unique 'natural experiment' setting: While being exposed to different health 
policies, they share a similar culture and language.
METHODS: To assess the impact of different health systems on mortality 
differentials across the German-speaking area, we relied on the concept of 
avoidable mortality. Based on official mortality statistics, we aggregated 
causes of death below age 75 that are either 1) amenable to health care or 2) 
avoidable through primary prevention. We calculated standardised death rates and 
constructed cause-deleted life tables for 9 Austrian, 96 German, 1 Italian and 5 
Swiss regions from 1992 to 2019, harmonised according to the current territorial 
borders.
RESULTS: There are strong north-south and east-west gradients in amenable and 
preventable mortality across the studied regions to the advantage of the 
southwest. However, the Swiss regions still show significantly lower mortality 
levels than the neighbouring regions in southern Germany. Eliminating avoidable 
deaths from the life tables reduces spatial inequality in life expectancy in 
2017/2019 by 30% for men and 28% for women.
CONCLUSIONS: The efficiency of health policies in assuring timely and adequate 
health care and in preventing risk-relevant behaviour has room for improvement 
in all German regions, especially in the north, west and east, and in eastern 
Austria as well.

Copyright © 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2023.115976
PMCID: PMC10357323
PMID: 37356189 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


749. J Hum Evol. 2023 Aug;181:103399. doi: 10.1016/j.jhevol.2023.103399. Epub
2023  Jun 23.

Modeling Oldowan tool transport from a primate perspective.

Reeves JS(1), Proffitt T(2), Almeida-Warren K(3), Luncz LV(4).

Author information:
(1)Technological Primates Research Group, Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary 
Anthropology, Deutscher Platz 6, Leipzig, 04103, Germany; Center for the 
Advanced Study of Human Paleobiology, Department of Anthropology, The George 
Washington University, 800 2nd Street, NW, 20052, USA. Electronic address: 
Jonathan_Reeves@eva.mpg.de.
(2)Technological Primates Research Group, Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary 
Anthropology, Deutscher Platz 6, Leipzig, 04103, Germany.
(3)Primate Models for Behavioural Evolution Lab, Institute of Human Sciences, 
University of Oxford, 64 Banbury Road, Oxford, OX2 6PN, UK; Interdisciplinary 
Center for Archaeology and Evolution of Human Behaviour (ICArEHB), Universidade 
do Algarve, Faro, Portugal.
(4)Technological Primates Research Group, Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary 
Anthropology, Deutscher Platz 6, Leipzig, 04103, Germany; Center for the 
Advanced Study of Human Paleobiology, Department of Anthropology, The George 
Washington University, 800 2nd Street, NW, 20052, USA.

Living nonhuman primates have long served as a referential framework for 
understanding various aspects of hominin biological and cultural evolution. 
Comparing the cognitive, social, and ecological contexts of nonhuman primate and 
hominin tool use has allowed researchers to identify key adaptations relevant to 
the evolution of hominin behavior. Although the Oldowan is often considered to 
be a major evolutionary milestone, it has been argued that the Oldowan is rather 
an extension of behaviors already present in the ape lineage. This is based on 
the fact that while apes move tools through repeated, unplanned, short-distance 
transport bouts, they produce material patterning often associated with 
long-distance transport, planning, and foresight in the Oldowan. Nevertheless, 
remain fundamental differences in how Oldowan core and flake technology and 
nonhuman primate tools are used. The goal of the Oldowan hominins is to produce 
sharp-edged flakes, whereas nonhuman primates use stone tools primarily as 
percussors. Here, we present an agent-based model that investigates the 
explanatory power of the ape tool transport model in light of these differences. 
The model simulates the formation of the Oldowan record under the conditions of 
an accumulated short-distance transport pattern, as seen in extant chimpanzees. 
Our results show that while ape tool transport can account for some of the 
variation observed in the archaeological record, factors related to use-life 
duration severely limit how far an Oldowan core can be moved through repeated 
short-distance transport bouts. Thus, the ape tool transport has limitations in 
its ability to explain patterns in the Oldowan. These results provide a basis 
for discussing adaptive processes that would have facilitated the development of 
the Oldowan.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhevol.2023.103399
PMID: 37356333 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest The authors report no 
competing interests.


750. Lancet. 2023 Jul 15;402(10397):203-234. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(23)01301-6.
Epub  2023 Jun 22.

Global, regional, and national burden of diabetes from 1990 to 2021, with 
projections of prevalence to 2050: a systematic analysis for the Global Burden 
of Disease Study 2021.

GBD 2021 Diabetes Collaborators.

Collaborators: Ong KL, Stafford LK, McLaughlin SA, Boyko EJ, Vollset SE, Smith 
AE, Dalton BE, Duprey J, Cruz JA, Hagins H, Lindstedt PA, Aali A, Abate YH, 
Abate MD, Abbasian M, Abbasi-Kangevari Z, Abbasi-Kangevari M, Abd ElHafeez S, 
Abd-Rabu R, Abdulah DM, Abdullah AYM, Abedi V, Abidi H, Aboagye RG, Abolhassani 
H, Abu-Gharbieh E, Abu-Zaid A, Adane TD, Adane DE, Addo IY, Adegboye OA, 
Adekanmbi V, Adepoju AV, Adnani QES, Afolabi RF, Agarwal G, Aghdam ZB, 
Agudelo-Botero M, Aguilera Arriagada CE, Agyemang-Duah W, Ahinkorah BO, Ahmad D, 
Ahmad R, Ahmad S, Ahmad A, Ahmadi A, Ahmadi K, Ahmed A, Ahmed A, Ahmed LA, Ahmed 
SA, Ajami M, Akinyemi RO, Al Hamad H, Al Hasan SM, Al-Ahdal TMA, Alalwan TA, 
Al-Aly Z, AlBataineh MT, Alcalde-Rabanal JE, Alemi S, Ali H, Alinia T, Aljunid 
SM, Almustanyir S, Al-Raddadi RM, Alvis-Guzman N, Amare F, Ameyaw EK, Amiri S, 
Amusa GA, Andrei CL, Anjana RM, Ansar A, Ansari G, Ansari-Moghaddam A, Anyasodor 
AE, Arabloo J, Aravkin AY, Areda D, Arifin H, Arkew M, Armocida B, Ärnlöv J, 
Artamonov AA, Arulappan J, Aruleba RT, Arumugam A, Aryan Z, Asemu MT, 
Asghari-Jafarabadi M, Askari E, Asmelash D, Astell-Burt T, Athar M, Athari SS, 
Atout MMW, Avila-Burgos L, Awaisu A, Azadnajafabad S, B DB, Babamohamadi H, 
Badar M, Badawi A, Badiye AD, Baghcheghi N, Bagheri N, Bagherieh S, Bah S, 
Bahadory S, Bai R, Baig AA, Baltatu OC, Baradaran HR, Barchitta M, Bardhan M, 
Barengo NC, Bärnighausen TW, Barone MTU, Barone-Adesi F, Barrow A, Bashiri H, 
Basiru A, Basu S, Basu S, Batiha AM, Batra K, Bayih MT, Bayileyegn NS, Behnoush 
AH, Bekele AB, Belete MA, Belgaumi UI, Belo L, Bennett DA, Bensenor IM, Berhe K, 
Berhie AY, Bhaskar S, Bhat AN, Bhatti JS, Bikbov B, Bilal F, Bintoro BS, Bitaraf 
S, Bitra VR, Bjegovic-Mikanovic V, Bodolica V, Boloor A, Brauer M, 
Brazo-Sayavera J, Brenner H, Butt ZA, Calina D, Campos LA, Campos-Nonato IR, Cao 
Y, Cao C, Car J, Carvalho M, Castañeda-Orjuela CA, Catalá-López F, Cerin E, 
Chadwick J, Chandrasekar EK, Chanie GS, Charan J, Chattu VK, Chauhan K, Cheema 
HA, Chekol Abebe E, Chen S, Cherbuin N, Chichagi F, Chidambaram SB, Cho WCS, 
Choudhari SG, Chowdhury R, Chowdhury EK, Chu DT, Chukwu IS, Chung SC, Coberly K, 
Columbus A, Contreras D, Cousin E, Criqui MH, Cruz-Martins N, Cuschieri S, Dabo 
B, Dadras O, Dai X, Damasceno AAM, Dandona R, Dandona L, Das S, Dascalu AM, Dash 
NR, Dashti M, Dávila-Cervantes CA, De la Cruz-Góngora V, Debele GR, Delpasand K, 
Demisse FW, Demissie GD, Deng X, Denova-Gutiérrez E, Deo SV, Dervišević E, Desai 
HD, Desale AT, Dessie AM, Desta F, Dewan SMR, Dey S, Dhama K, Dhimal M, Diao N, 
Diaz D, Dinu M, Diress M, Djalalinia S, Doan LP, Dongarwar D, Dos Santos 
Figueiredo FW, Duncan BB, Dutta S, Dziedzic AM, Edinur HA, Ekholuenetale M, 
Ekundayo TC, Elgendy IY, Elhadi M, El-Huneidi W, Elmeligy OAA, Elmonem MA, 
Endeshaw D, Esayas HL, Eshetu HB, Etaee F, Fadhil I, Fagbamigbe AF, Fahim A, 
Falahi S, Faris MEM, Farrokhpour H, Farzadfar F, Fatehizadeh A, Fazli G, Feng X, 
Ferede TY, Fischer F, Flood D, Forouhari A, Foroumadi R, Foroutan Koudehi M, 
Gaidhane AM, Gaihre S, Gaipov A, Galali Y, Ganesan B, Garcia-Gordillo MA, Gautam 
RK, Gebrehiwot M, Gebrekidan KG, Gebremeskel TG, Getacher L, Ghadirian F, 
Ghamari SH, Ghasemi Nour M, Ghassemi F, Golechha M, Goleij P, Golinelli D, 
Gopalani SV, Guadie HA, Guan SY, Gudayu TW, Guimarães RA, Guled RA, Gupta R, 
Gupta K, Gupta VB, Gupta VK, Gyawali B, Haddadi R, Hadi NR, Haile TG, Hajibeygi 
R, Haj-Mirzaian A, Halwani R, Hamidi S, Hankey GJ, Hannan MA, Haque S, Harandi 
H, Harlianto NI, Hasan SMM, Hasan SS, Hasani H, Hassanipour S, Hassen MB, 
Haubold J, Hayat K, Heidari G, Heidari M, Hessami K, Hiraike Y, Holla R, Hossain 
S, Hossain MS, Hosseini MS, Hosseinzadeh M, Hosseinzadeh H, Huang J, Huda MN, 
Hussain S, Huynh HH, Hwang BF, Ibitoye SE, Ikeda N, Ilic IM, Ilic MD, Inbaraj 
LR, Iqbal A, Islam SMS, Islam RM, Ismail NE, Iso H, Isola G, Itumalla R, Iwagami 
M, Iwu CCD, Iyamu IO, Iyasu AN, Jacob L, Jafarzadeh A, Jahrami H, Jain R, Jaja 
C, Jamalpoor Z, Jamshidi E, Janakiraman B, Jayanna K, Jayapal SK, Jayaram S, 
Jayawardena R, Jebai R, Jeong W, Jin Y, Jokar M, Jonas JB, Joseph N, Joseph A, 
Joshua CE, Joukar F, Jozwiak JJ, Kaambwa B, Kabir A, Kabthymer RH, Kadashetti V, 
Kahe F, Kalhor R, Kandel H, Karanth SD, Karaye IM, Karkhah S, Katoto PD, Kaur N, 
Kazemian S, Kebede SA, Khader YS, Khajuria H, Khalaji A, Khan MA, Khan M, Khan 
A, Khanal S, Khatatbeh MM, Khater AM, Khateri S, Khorashadizadeh F, Khubchandani 
J, Kibret BG, Kim MS, Kimokoti RW, Kisa A, Kivimäki M, Kolahi AA, Komaki S, 
Kompani F, Koohestani HR, Korzh O, Kostev K, Kothari N, Koyanagi A, Krishan K, 
Krishnamoorthy Y, Kuate Defo B, Kuddus M, Kuddus MA, Kumar R, Kumar H, Kundu S, 
Kurniasari MD, Kuttikkattu A, La Vecchia C, Lallukka T, Larijani B, Larsson AO, 
Latief K, Lawal BK, Le TTT, Le TTB, Lee SWH, Lee M, Lee WC, Lee PH, Lee SW, Lee 
SW, Legesse SM, Lenzi J, Li Y, Li MC, Lim SS, Lim LL, Liu X, Liu C, Lo CH, Lopes 
G, Lorkowski S, Lozano R, Lucchetti G, Maghazachi AA, Mahasha PW, Mahjoub S, 
Mahmoud MA, Mahmoudi R, Mahmoudimanesh M, Mai AT, Majeed A, Majma Sanaye P, 
Makris KC, Malhotra K, Malik AA, Malik I, Mallhi TH, Malta DC, Mamun AA, 
Mansouri B, Marateb HR, Mardi P, Martini S, Martorell M, Marzo RR, Masoudi R, 
Masoudi S, Mathews E, Maugeri A, Mazzaglia G, Mekonnen T, Meshkat M, Mestrovic 
T, Miao Jonasson J, Miazgowski T, Michalek IM, Minh LHN, Mini GK, Miranda JJ, 
Mirfakhraie R, Mirrakhimov EM, Mirza-Aghazadeh-Attari M, Misganaw A, Misgina KH, 
Mishra M, Moazen B, Mohamed NS, Mohammadi E, Mohammadi M, Mohammadian-Hafshejani 
A, Mohammadshahi M, Mohseni A, Mojiri-Forushani H, Mokdad AH, Momtazmanesh S, 
Monasta L, Moniruzzaman M, Mons U, Montazeri F, Moodi Ghalibaf A, Moradi Y, 
Moradi M, Moradi Sarabi M, Morovatdar N, Morrison SD, Morze J, Mossialos E, 
Mostafavi E, Mueller UO, Mulita F, Mulita A, Murillo-Zamora E, Musa KI, Mwita 
JC, Nagaraju SP, Naghavi M, Nainu F, Nair TS, Najmuldeen HHR, Nangia V, Nargus 
S, Naser AY, Nassereldine H, Natto ZS, Nauman J, Nayak BP, Ndejjo R, Negash H, 
Negoi RI, Nguyen HTH, Nguyen DH, Nguyen PT, Nguyen VT, Nguyen HQ, Niazi RK, 
Nigatu YT, Ningrum DNA, Nizam MA, Nnyanzi LA, Noreen M, Noubiap JJ, Nzoputam OJ, 
Nzoputam CI, Oancea B, Odogwu NM, Odukoya OO, Ojha VA, Okati-Aliabad H, Okekunle 
AP, Okonji OC, Okwute PG, Olufadewa II, Onwujekwe OE, Ordak M, Ortiz A, Osuagwu 
UL, Oulhaj A, Owolabi MO, Padron-Monedero A, Padubidri JR, Palladino R, 
Panagiotakos D, Panda-Jonas S, Pandey A, Pandey A, Pandi-Perumal SR, Pantea 
Stoian AM, Pardhan S, Parekh T, Parekh U, Pasovic M, Patel J, Patel JR, Paudel 
U, Pepito VCF, Pereira M, Perico N, Perna S, Petcu IR, Petermann-Rocha FE, 
Podder V, Postma MJ, Pourali G, Pourtaheri N, Prates EJS, Qadir MMF, Qattea I, 
Raee P, Rafique I, Rahimi M, Rahimifard M, Rahimi-Movaghar V, Rahman MO, Rahman 
MA, Rahman MHU, Rahman M, Rahman MM, Rahmani M, Rahmani S, Rahmanian V, 
Rahmawaty S, Rahnavard N, Rajbhandari B, Ram P, Ramazanu S, Rana J, Rancic N, 
Ranjha MMAN, Rao CR, Rapaka D, Rasali DP, Rashedi S, Rashedi V, Rashid AM, 
Rashidi MM, Ratan ZA, Rawaf S, Rawal L, Redwan EMM, Remuzzi G, Rengasamy KR, 
Renzaho AMN, Reyes LF, Rezaei N, Rezaei N, Rezaeian M, Rezazadeh H, Riahi SM, 
Rias YA, Riaz M, Ribeiro D, Rodrigues M, Rodriguez JAB, Roever L, Rohloff P, 
Roshandel G, Roustazadeh A, Rwegerera GM, Saad AMA, Saber-Ayad MM, Sabour S, 
Sabzmakan L, Saddik B, Sadeghi E, Saeed U, Saeedi Moghaddam S, Safi S, Safi SZ, 
Saghazadeh A, Saheb Sharif-Askari N, Saheb Sharif-Askari F, Sahebkar A, Sahoo 
SS, Sahoo H, Saif-Ur-Rahman KM, Sajid MR, Salahi S, Salahi S, Saleh MA, Salehi 
MA, Salomon JA, Sanabria J, Sanjeev RK, Sanmarchi F, Santric-Milicevic MM, 
Sarasmita MA, Sargazi S, Sathian B, Sathish T, Sawhney M, Schlaich MP, Schmidt 
MI, Schuermans A, Seidu AA, Senthil Kumar N, Sepanlou SG, Sethi Y, Seylani A, 
Shabany M, Shafaghat T, Shafeghat M, Shafie M, Shah NS, Shahid S, Shaikh MA, 
Shanawaz M, Shannawaz M, Sharfaei S, Shashamo BB, Shiri R, Shittu A, Shivakumar 
KM, Shivalli S, Shobeiri P, Shokri F, Shuval K, Sibhat MM, Silva LMLR, Simpson 
CR, Singh JA, Singh P, Singh S, Siraj MS, Skryabina AA, Sohag AAM, Soleimani H, 
Solikhah S, Soltani-Zangbar MS, Somayaji R, Sorensen RJD, Starodubova AV, Sujata 
S, Suleman M, Sun J, Sundström J, Tabarés-Seisdedos R, Tabatabaei SM, 
Tabatabaeizadeh SA, Tabish M, Taheri M, Taheri E, Taki E, Tamuzi JJL, Tan KK, 
Tat NY, Taye BT, Temesgen WA, Temsah MH, Tesler R, Thangaraju P, Thankappan KR, 
Thapa R, Tharwat S, Thomas N, Ticoalu JHV, Tiyuri A, Tonelli M, Tovani-Palone 
MR, Trico D, Trihandini I, Tripathy JP, Tromans SJ, Tsegay GM, Tualeka AR, Tufa 
DG, Tyrovolas S, Ullah S, Upadhyay E, Vahabi SM, Vaithinathan AG, Valizadeh R, 
van Daalen KR, Vart P, Varthya SB, Vasankari TJ, Vaziri S, Verma MV, Verras GI, 
Vo DC, Wagaye B, Waheed Y, Wang Z, Wang Y, Wang C, Wang F, Wassie GT, Wei MYW, 
Weldemariam AH, Westerman R, Wickramasinghe ND, Wu Y, Wulandari RD, Xia J, Xiao 
H, Xu S, Xu X, Yada DY, Yang L, Yatsuya H, Yesiltepe M, Yi S, Yohannis HK, 
Yonemoto N, You Y, Zaman SB, Zamora N, Zare I, Zarea K, Zarrintan A, Zastrozhin 
MS, Zeru NG, Zhang ZJ, Zhong C, Zhou J, Zielińska M, Zikarg YT, Zodpey S, Zoladl 
M, Zou Z, Zumla A, Zuniga YMH, Magliano DJ, Murray CJL, Hay SI, Vos T.

Erratum in
    Lancet. 2023 Sep 30;402(10408):1132.

BACKGROUND: Diabetes is one of the leading causes of death and disability 
worldwide, and affects people regardless of country, age group, or sex. Using 
the most recent evidentiary and analytical framework from the Global Burden of 
Diseases, Injuries, and Risk Factors Study (GBD), we produced location-specific, 
age-specific, and sex-specific estimates of diabetes prevalence and burden from 
1990 to 2021, the proportion of type 1 and type 2 diabetes in 2021, the 
proportion of the type 2 diabetes burden attributable to selected risk factors, 
and projections of diabetes prevalence through 2050.
METHODS: Estimates of diabetes prevalence and burden were computed in 204 
countries and territories, across 25 age groups, for males and females 
separately and combined; these estimates comprised lost years of healthy life, 
measured in disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs; defined as the sum of years 
of life lost [YLLs] and years lived with disability [YLDs]). We used the Cause 
of Death Ensemble model (CODEm) approach to estimate deaths due to diabetes, 
incorporating 25 666 location-years of data from vital registration and verbal 
autopsy reports in separate total (including both type 1 and type 2 diabetes) 
and type-specific models. Other forms of diabetes, including gestational and 
monogenic diabetes, were not explicitly modelled. Total and type 1 diabetes 
prevalence was estimated by use of a Bayesian meta-regression modelling tool, 
DisMod-MR 2.1, to analyse 1527 location-years of data from the scientific 
literature, survey microdata, and insurance claims; type 2 diabetes estimates 
were computed by subtracting type 1 diabetes from total estimates. Mortality and 
prevalence estimates, along with standard life expectancy and disability 
weights, were used to calculate YLLs, YLDs, and DALYs. When appropriate, we 
extrapolated estimates to a hypothetical population with a standardised age 
structure to allow comparison in populations with different age structures. We 
used the comparative risk assessment framework to estimate the risk-attributable 
type 2 diabetes burden for 16 risk factors falling under risk categories 
including environmental and occupational factors, tobacco use, high alcohol use, 
high body-mass index (BMI), dietary factors, and low physical activity. Using a 
regression framework, we forecast type 1 and type 2 diabetes prevalence through 
2050 with Socio-demographic Index (SDI) and high BMI as predictors, 
respectively.
FINDINGS: In 2021, there were 529 million (95% uncertainty interval [UI] 
500-564) people living with diabetes worldwide, and the global age-standardised 
total diabetes prevalence was 6·1% (5·8-6·5). At the super-region level, the 
highest age-standardised rates were observed in north Africa and the Middle East 
(9·3% [8·7-9·9]) and, at the regional level, in Oceania (12·3% [11·5-13·0]). 
Nationally, Qatar had the world's highest age-specific prevalence of diabetes, 
at 76·1% (73·1-79·5) in individuals aged 75-79 years. Total diabetes 
prevalence-especially among older adults-primarily reflects type 2 diabetes, 
which in 2021 accounted for 96·0% (95·1-96·8) of diabetes cases and 95·4% 
(94·9-95·9) of diabetes DALYs worldwide. In 2021, 52·2% (25·5-71·8) of global 
type 2 diabetes DALYs were attributable to high BMI. The contribution of high 
BMI to type 2 diabetes DALYs rose by 24·3% (18·5-30·4) worldwide between 1990 
and 2021. By 2050, more than 1·31 billion (1·22-1·39) people are projected to 
have diabetes, with expected age-standardised total diabetes prevalence rates 
greater than 10% in two super-regions: 16·8% (16·1-17·6) in north Africa and the 
Middle East and 11·3% (10·8-11·9) in Latin America and Caribbean. By 2050, 89 
(43·6%) of 204 countries and territories will have an age-standardised rate 
greater than 10%.
INTERPRETATION: Diabetes remains a substantial public health issue. Type 2 
diabetes, which makes up the bulk of diabetes cases, is largely preventable and, 
in some cases, potentially reversible if identified and managed early in the 
disease course. However, all evidence indicates that diabetes prevalence is 
increasing worldwide, primarily due to a rise in obesity caused by multiple 
factors. Preventing and controlling type 2 diabetes remains an ongoing 
challenge. It is essential to better understand disparities in risk factor 
profiles and diabetes burden across populations, to inform strategies to 
successfully control diabetes risk factors within the context of multiple and 
complex drivers.
FUNDING: Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.

Copyright © 2023 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an Open 
Access article under the CC BY 4.0 license. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(23)01301-6
PMCID: PMC10364581
PMID: 37356446 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests J Ärnlöv reports 
payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript 
writing, or educational events from AstraZeneca and Novartis; and participation 
on a Data Safety Monitoring Board or Advisory Board with AstraZeneca, Astella, 
and Boehringer Ingelheim; all outside the submitted work. S Bhaskar reports 
leadership or fiduciary role in other board, society, committee or advocacy 
group, paid or unpaid, with Rotary Club of Sydney, Australia as Board Director, 
with Rotary District 9675, Australia as Chair of Diversity Equity & Inclusion, 
and with Global Health & Migration, Global Health Hub Germany as Founding Member 
and Chair; all outside the submitted work. E J Boyko reports grants or contracts 
from the U.S. Department of Veteran Affairs; payment or honoraria for lectures, 
presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing, or educational events from 
the Korean Diabetes Association, The Diabetes Association of the ROC (Taiwan; 
province of China), and the American Diabetes Association; support for attending 
meetings and/or travel from the Korean Diabetes Association, The Diabetes 
Association of the R.O.C. (Taiwan; province of China), and the International 
Society for the Diabetic Foot; all outside the submitted work. R M Islam reports 
support for attending meetings and/or travel from Lawley Pharmaceuticals for 
conference attendance outside the submitted work. N E Ismail reports unpaid 
leadership or fiduciary roles in board, society, committee, or advocacy groups 
with the Malaysian Academy of Pharmacy as Council Member and Bursar outside the 
submitted work. K Krishan reports non-financial support from UGC Centre of 
Advanced Study, CAS II, Department of Anthropology, Panjab University, 
Chandigarh, India, outside the submitted work. S Lorkowski reports grants or 
contracts paid to his institution from Akcea Therapeutics Germany; consulting 
fees from Danone, Novartis Pharma, Swedish Orphan Biovitrum (SOBI), and Upfield; 
payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript 
writing, or educational events from Akcea Therapeutics Germany, AMARIN Germany, 
Amedes Holding, AMGEN, Berlin-Chemie, Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma, Daiichi 
Sankyo Deutschland, Danone, Hubert Burda Media Holding, Janssen-Cilag, Lilly 
Deutschland, Novartis Pharma, Novo Nordisk Pharma, Roche Pharma, Sanofi-Aventis, 
and SYNLAB Holding Deutschland & SYNLAB Akademie; support for attending meetings 
and/or travel from AMGEN; and participation on a data safety monitoring board or 
advisory board with Akcea Therapeutics Germany, AMGEN, Daiichi Sankyo 
Deutschland, Novartis Pharma, and Sanofi-Aventis; all outside the submitted 
work. A Ortiz has received grants from Sanofi; consultancy or speaker fees or 
travel support from Advicciene, Astellas, Astrazeneca, Amicus, Amgen, Boehringer 
Ingelheim, Fresenius Medical Care, GSK, Bayer, Sanofi-Genzyme, Menarini, 
Mundipharma, Kyowa Kirin, Lilly, Alexion, Freeline, Idorsia, Chiesi, Otsuka, 
Novo-Nordisk, Sysmex, and Vifor Fresenius Medical Care Renal Pharma and is 
Director of the Catedra Mundipharma-UAM of diabetic kidney disease and the 
Catedra Astrazeneca-UAM of chronic kidney disease and electrolytes; leadership 
or fiduciary roles in board, society, committee, or advocacy groups, paid or 
unpaid with the European Renal Association; and stock or stock options from 
Telara Farma; all outside the submitted work. V C F Pepito reports grants or 
contracts from Sanofi Consumer Healthcare to do research on self-care in the 
Philippines and from International Initiative for Impact Evaluation (3ie) to 
propose research on primary care benefit packages in the Philippines; all 
outside the submitted work. M J Postma reports stock or stock options from 
Health-Ecore, Zeist (NL) (25%) and PAG BV, Groningen (NL) (100%) outside the 
submitted work. D P Rasali reports an unpaid leadership or fiduciary role in a 
board, society, committee, or advocacy group with Emotional Well Being Institute 
Canada as Director. L R Reyes reports grants or contracts from Merck and Pfizer; 
consulting fees, payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers' 
bureaus, manuscript writing or educational events, and payments for expert 
testimony from Merck, Pfizer and GSK; support for attending meetings and/or 
travel from GSK; and participation on a data safety monitoring board or advisory 
board with Merck; all outside the submitted work. M P Schlaich reports 
consulting fees, payment, or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers' 
bureaus, manuscript writing or educational events, paid to himself, and support 
for attending meetings and/or travel paid to his institution, from Medtronic and 
Abbot; and leadership or fiduciary roles in board, society, committee, or 
advocacy groups, paid or unpaid with the World Hypertension League as Director; 
all outside the submitted work. C R Simpson reports research grants paid to his 
institution from Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment (MBIE) (New 
Zealand), Health Research Council of New Zealand, Ministry of Health (New 
Zealand), Medical Research Council (UK), Health Data Research UK, and Chief 
Scientist Office (UK); all outside the submitted work. J A Singh reports 
consulting fees from Crealta/Horizon, Medisys, Fidia, PK Med, Two Labs, Adept 
Field Solutions, Clinical Care Options, Clearview Healthcare Partners, Putnam 
Associates, Focus Forward, Navigant cCnsulting, Spherix, MedIQ, Jupiter Life 
Science, UBM LLC, Trio Health, Medscape, WebMD, Practice Point communications, 
the National Institutes of Health and the American College of Rheumatology; 
payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript 
writing, or educational events from the speaker's bureau of Simply Speaking; 
support for attending meetings and/or travel from the steering committee of 
OMERACT; participation on a Data Safety Monitoring Board or Advisory Board as a 
member of the FDA Arthritis Advisory Committee; leadership or fiduciary roles in 
board, society, committee, or advocacy groups, paid or unpaid with OMERACT as a 
steering committee member, with Veterans Affairs of Rheumatology Field Advisory 
Committee as a chair, and with UAB Cochrane Musculoskeletal Group Satellite 
Center on Network Meta-analysis as the editor and director; and stock or stock 
options in TPT Global Tech, Vaxart pharmaceuticals, Atyu biopharma, Adaptimmune 
Therapeutics, GeoVax Labs, Pieris Pharmaceuticals, Enzolytics, Seres 
Therapeutics, Tonix Pharmaceuticals and Charlotte's Web Holdings, with 
previously owned stock options in Amarin, Viking, and Moderna pharmaceuticals; 
all outside the submitted work. J Sundström reports stock or stock options from 
Anagram kommunikation AB and Symptoms Europe AB, outside the submitted work. D 
Trico reports payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers' 
bureaus, manuscript writing, or educational events and support for attending 
meetings and/or travel from AstraZeneca, Eli Lilly, and Novo Nordisk; 
participation on a data safety monitoring board or advisory board with Amarin; 
and receipt of equipment, materials, drugs, medical writing, gifts or other 
services to their institution from PharmaNutra and Abbott; all outside the 
submitted work. M Zielińska reports other financial or non-financial interests 
as an AstraZeneca employee outside the submitted work. A Z reports other 
financial or non-financial interests in the Pan African Network for Rapid 
Research, Response, and Preparedness for Infectious Diseases Epidemics 
Consortium (PANDORA-ID-NET), European and Developing Countries Clinical Trials 
Partnership the EU Horizon 2020 Framework Programme (EDCTP-RIA2016E-1609). Sir 
Zumla is a UK-NIHR Senior Investigator, and a Mahathir Science Award, Sir 
Patrick Manson Medal, and EU-EDCTP Pascoal Mocumbi Prize laureate; all outside 
the submitted work.


751. J Pediatr (Rio J). 2023 Nov-Dec;99(6):568-573. doi:
10.1016/j.jped.2023.05.006.  Epub 2023 Jun 22.

The risks of the new morbidities acquired during pediatric onco-critical care 
and their life-shortening effects.

Santos GMVD(1), de Araujo OR(2), Leal PB(1), Arduini RG(1), de Sousa RMK(1), 
Caran EMM(3), da Silva DCB(1).

Author information:
(1)Grupo de Apoio ao Adolescente e à Criança com Câncer (GRAACC), Unidade de 
Tratamento Intensivo, São Paulo, SP, Brazil.
(2)Grupo de Apoio ao Adolescente e à Criança com Câncer (GRAACC), Unidade de 
Tratamento Intensivo, São Paulo, SP, Brazil. Electronic address: 
orlei@uol.com.br.
(3)Universidade Federal de São Paulo (UNIFESP), Departamento de Pediatria, São 
Paulo, SP, Brazil; Grupo de Apoio ao Adolescente e à Criança com Câncer 
(GRAACC), Departamento de Oncologia, São Paulo, SP, Brazil.

Comment in
    J Pediatr (Rio J). 2023 Nov-Dec;99(6):531-533.

OBJECTIVE: The authors investigated the functional status at ICU admission and 
at hospital discharge, and the impact of dysfunctions on survivors' lifespan.
METHOD: Single-center retrospective cohort. The FSS (Functional Status Scale) 
was calculated at ICU admission and at hospital discharge. A new morbidity was 
defined as an increase in FSS ≥ 3.
RESULTS: Among 1002 patients, there were 855 survivors. Of these, 194 (22.6%) 
had died by the end of the study; 45 (5.3%) had a new morbidity. Means in the 
motor domain at admission and discharge were 1.37 (SD: 0.82) and 1.53 (SD 0.95, 
p = 0.002). In the feeding domain, the means were 1.19 (SD 0.63) and 1.30 (SD 
0.76), p = 0.002; global means were 6.93 (SD 2.45) and 7.2 (SD 2.94), 
p = 0.007.  Acute respiratory failure requiring mechanical ventilation, the 
score PRISM IV, age < 5 years, and central nervous system tumors were 
independent predictors of new morbidity. New morbidity correlated with lower 
odds of survival after hospital discharge, considering all causes of death 
(p = 0.014), and was independently predictive of death (Cox hazard 
ratio = 1.98). In Weibull models, shortening in the life span of 14.2% 
(p = 0.014) was estimated as a new morbidity.
CONCLUSIONS: New morbidities are related to age, disease severity at admission, 
and SNC tumors. New morbidities, in turn, correlate with lower probabilities of 
survival and shortening of the remaining life span. Physical rehabilitation 
interventions in this population of children may have the potential to provide 
an increase in lifespan.

Copyright © 2023. Published by Elsevier Editora Ltda.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jped.2023.05.006
PMCID: PMC10594009
PMID: 37356812 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest The authors declare no 
conflicts of interest.


752. Pest Manag Sci. 2023 Nov;79(11):4309-4318. doi: 10.1002/ps.7628. Epub 2023
Jul  11.

Olfactory behavioral responses of two Drosophila species and their pupal 
parasitoid to volatiles from bananas.

Bi Y(1), Zhang X(2), Chang X(3), Li J(2), Xiao S(2), Zhang B(2), Dang C(4), Sun 
L(5), Yao H(2), Fang Q(2), Wang F(2), Ye G(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Hainan Institute, Zhejiang University, Sanya, China.
(2)Zhejiang Provincial Key Laboratory of Biology of Crop Pathogens and Insects, 
Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, China.
(3)College of Plant Health and Medicine, Qingdao Agricultural University, 
Qingdao, China.
(4)College of Life and Environmental Sciences, Hangzhou Normal University, 
Hangzhou, China.
(5)Qixia Agricultural and Technology Extension Center, Qixia, China.

BACKGROUND: Behavior-based manipulation is an essential part of Drosophila 
integrated pest management (IPM). Effective compounds are useful for improving 
the efficiency of baits and the development of attract-and-kill or push-pull 
strategies to manage Drosophila populations. Here, we investigated the olfactory 
behavior of two Drosophila species, as well as their pupal parasitoid, to 
volatiles from bananas, for the identification of effective compounds to control 
fly populations.
RESULTS: The results showed that overripe bananas were most attractive to both 
flies, with a higher attraction index (AI) in Drosophila melanogaster than in 
Drosophila suzukii. The profiles of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) from 
bananas with three different ripening stages were compared, and six VOCs were 
selected for behavioral tests. D. suzukii showed significantly different 
responses to isoamyl alcohol with D. melanogaster. The effects of ethyl butyrate 
and ethyl isovalerate on the two flies were dose-dependent, with lower 
concentrations acting as repellent and higher concentrations acting as 
attractant. Isoamyl acetate, isoamyl butyrate and isoamyl isovalerate 
(0.005-0.05% v/v) were attractive to both flies. The parasitoid wasp 
Pachycrepoidus vindemmiae was repelled by isoamyl alcohol and ethyl butyrate, 
and attracted by ethyl isovalerate, but showed no significant response to 
isoamyl acetate, isoamyl butyrate and isoamyl isovalerate at the tested 
concentration.
CONCLUSION: This study indicated that the behavioral response of Drosophila to 
the odor of chemical compounds is dose-dependent. Isoamyl alcohol and isoamyl 
acetate at certain concentrations could be used as repellents, whereas ethyl 
isovalerate as an attractant in control strategy design for D. suzukii. © 2023 
Society of Chemical Industry.

© 2023 Society of Chemical Industry.

DOI: 10.1002/ps.7628
PMID: 37357260 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


753. Eur J Nucl Med Mol Imaging. 2023 Sep;50(11):3390-3399. doi: 
10.1007/s00259-023-06315-z. Epub 2023 Jun 26.

Next-generation PET/CT imaging in meningioma-first clinical experiences using 
the novel SSTR-targeting peptide [(18)F]SiTATE.

Unterrainer M(1)(2), Kunte SC(3), Unterrainer LM(3), Holzgreve A(3), Delker 
A(3), Lindner S(3), Beyer L(3), Brendel M(3)(4)(5), Kunz WG(6), Winkelmann M(6), 
Cyran CC(6), Ricke J(6), Jurkschat K(7), Wängler C(8), Wängler B(9), 
Schirrmacher R(10), Belka C(11)(12)(13), Niyazi M(11)(12)(13), Tonn 
JC(12)(13)(14), Bartenstein P(3), Albert NL(3)(12)(13).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nuclear Medicine, University Hospital, LMU Munich, Munich, 
Germany. Marcus.Unterrainer@med.uni-muenchen.de.
(2)Department of Radiology, University Hospital, LMU Munich, Marchioninistr. 15, 
81377, Munich, Germany. Marcus.Unterrainer@med.uni-muenchen.de.
(3)Department of Nuclear Medicine, University Hospital, LMU Munich, Munich, 
Germany.
(4)German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE), Munich, Germany.
(5)Munich Cluster for Systems Neurology (SyNergy), Munich, Germany.
(6)Department of Radiology, University Hospital, LMU Munich, Marchioninistr. 15, 
81377, Munich, Germany.
(7)Fakultät für Chemie und Chemische Biologie, Technische Universität Dortmund, 
Dortmund, Germany.
(8)Biomedical Chemistry, Department of Clinical Radiology and Nuclear Medicine, 
Medical Faculty Mannheim of Heidelberg University, Mannheim, Germany.
(9)Molecular Imaging and Radiochemistry, Department of Clinical Radiology and 
Nuclear Medicine, Medical Faculty Mannheim of Heidelberg University, Mannheim, 
Germany.
(10)Department of Oncology, Division of Oncological Imaging, University of 
Alberta, Edmonton, AB, Canada.
(11)Department of Radiation Oncology, University Hospital, LMU Munich, Munich, 
Germany.
(12)German Cancer Consortium (DKTK), Partner Site Munich, German Cancer Research 
Center (DKFZ), 69120, Heidelberg, Germany.
(13)Bavarian Cancer Research Center (BZKF), Munich, Germany.
(14)Department of Neurosurgery, University Hospital, LMU Munich, Munich, 
Germany.

Erratum in
    Eur J Nucl Med Mol Imaging. 2023 Aug 29;:

BACKGROUND: Somatostatin-receptor (SSTR)-targeted PET/CT provides important 
clinical information in addition to standard imaging in meningioma patients. 
[18F]SiTATE is a novel, 18F-labeled SSTR-targeting peptide with superior imaging 
properties according to preliminary data. We provide the first [18F]SiTATE 
PET/CT data of a large cohort of meningioma patients.
METHODS: Patients with known or suspected meningioma undergoing [18F]SiTATE 
PET/CT were included. Uptake intensity (SUV) of meningiomas, non-meningioma 
lesions, and healthy organs were assessed using a 50% isocontour volume of 
interest (VOI) or a spherical VOI, respectively. Also, trans-osseous extension 
on PET/CT was assessed.
RESULTS: A total of 107 patients with 117 [18F]SiTATE PET/CT scans were 
included. Overall, 231 meningioma lesions and 61 non-meningioma lesions (e.g., 
post-therapeutic changes) were analyzed. Physiological uptake was lowest in 
healthy brain tissue, followed by bone marrow, parotid, and pituitary (SUVmean 
0.06 ± 0.04 vs. 1.4 ± 0.9 vs. 1.6 ± 1.0 vs. 9.8 ± 4.6; p < 0.001). Meningiomas 
showed significantly higher uptake than non-meningioma lesions (SUVmax 
11.6 ± 10.6 vs. 4.0 ± 3.3, p < 0.001). Meningiomas showed significantly higher 
uptake than non-meningioma lesions (SUVmax 11.6±10.6 vs. 4.0±3.3, p<0.001). 
93/231 (40.3%) meningiomas showed partial trans-osseous extension and 34/231 
(14.7%) predominant intra-osseous extension. 59/231 (25.6%) meningioma lesions 
found on PET/CT had not been reported on previous standard imaging.
CONCLUSION: This is the first PET/CT study using an 18F-labeled SSTR-ligand in 
meningioma patients: [18F]SiTATE provides extraordinary contrast in meningioma 
compared to healthy tissue and non-meningioma lesions, which leads to a high 
detection rate of so far unknown meningioma sites and osseous involvement. 
Having in mind the advantageous logistic features of 18F-labeled compared to 
68Ga-labeled compounds (e.g., longer half-life and large-badge production), 
[18F]SiTATE has the potential to foster a widespread use of SSTR-targeted 
imaging in neuro-oncology.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s00259-023-06315-z
PMCID: PMC10541820
PMID: 37358620 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: JCT received research grants from Novocure and 
Munich Surgical Imaging and lecture honoraria from Seagen. NLA received research 
grants from Novocure and honoraria for consultation or advisory board 
