(2)Department of Haematology, University of Ghana Medical School, Accra, Ghana.
(3)https://orcid.org/0000-0002-2017-2569.
(4)Catholic Hospital, Battor, Ghana.
(5)https://orcid.org/0000-0003-1216-2296.
(6)Faculty of Medicine, School of Epidemiology and Public Health, University of 
Ottawa, Ottawa, ON K1H 8M5, Canada.
(7)Department of Haematology, Korle-Bu Teaching Hospital, Accra, Ghana.
(8)Department of Emergency Medicine, Faculty of Medicine & Dentistry, College of 
Health Sciences, University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB T6G 2T4, Canada.
(9)https://orcid.org/0000-0001-5494-5411.
(10)Department of Pathology, Clinical Teaching Center, School of Medical 
Sciences, University of Cape Coast, Cape Coast, Ghana.
(11)https://orcid.org/0000-0003-0356-0663.

BACKGROUND: Worldwide, about 20-25 million people are affected by sickle cell 
disease (SCD), with 60% of patients living in sub-Saharan Africa. Despite recent 
therapeutic advancements resulting in improved life expectancy among SCD 
patients, the prevalence of high-risk human papillomavirus (hr-HPV) and cervical 
lesions have not been studied in women with SCD. We determined the prevalence of 
hr-HPV and cervical lesions among women with SCD and recommended strategies for 
reducing cervical cancer incidence in this cohort.
METHODS: Through the mPharma 10,000 Women Initiative, women with SCD attending 
routine visits at the Ghana Institute of Clinical Genetics SCD clinic were 
screened by trained nurses. Screening was performed via concurrent MA-6000 
hr-HPV DNA testing and enhanced visual assessment (EVA) mobile colposcopy from 
mobileODT.
RESULTS: Among 168 participants screened (mean age, 43.0 years), the overall 
prevalence rates of hr-HPV infection and cervical lesions were 28.6% (95% CI, 
21.7-35.4) and 3.6% (95% CI, 0.8-6.4), respectively. The hr-HPV prevalence rates 
stratified by haemoglobin genotype were 29.4% (95% CI, 19.7-39.1) and 28.6% (95% 
CI, 18.5-38.7) for genotypes SS and SC, respectively. None of the five women 
with the SF genotype tested hr-HPV positive, and the only patient with Sbthal 
genotype tested hr-HPV positive. Two women were EVA 'positive' but hr-HPV 
negative, whereas four were EVA positive and hr-HPV positive. Exploratory 
analysis revealed no significant associations between hr-HPV positivity and age, 
education level, marital status or parity.
CONCLUSION: In the absence of a comprehensive national cervical screening 
programme aimed at including women with SCD as a special population, cervical 
cancer may increase in frequency among SCD patients. Thus, there is a need to 
build capacity and expand the scope of screening services for women with SCD.

© the authors; licensee ecancermedicalscience.

DOI: 10.3332/ecancer.2023.1571
PMCID: PMC10393310
PMID: 37533951

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.


330. Rev Panam Salud Publica. 2023 Aug 2;47:e103. doi: 10.26633/RPSP.2023.103. 
eCollection 2023.

A short list of high-priority indicators of health system responsiveness for 
aging: an eDelphi consensus study.

Gonzalez-Bautista E(1), Morsch P(2), Gonzalez C(3), Vega E(2).

Author information:
(1)Gerontopole Toulouse University Hospital Toulouse France Gerontopole, 
Toulouse University Hospital, Toulouse, France.
(2)Health Systems and Services Pan American Health Organization Washington, D.C. 
United States of America Health Systems and Services, Pan American Health 
Organization, Washington, D.C., United States of America.
(3)Independent researcher Mexico Independent researcher, Mexico.

The objective of this article was to provide a consensus-based short list of 
effective indicators to measure health system responsiveness to the needs of 
older adults which would be relevant to informing public policy. An e-Delphi 
study was done with no direct interaction between respondents. Virtual surveys 
were sent to 141 participants with experience in analysis and monitoring of 
health indicators, management of health systems, and health care of older 
adults. A baseline list of 24 previously published indicators was used. The 
criteria for selection as high priority indicators were: usefulness as a tracer 
of health system responsiveness and usefulness to inform policy. Consensus was 
defined as: ≥70% agreement among the participants that the indicator was very 
high or high priority; plus being benchmarked by ≥50% of respondents as having a 
higher relative weight than other indicators; plus being in the top 10 in the 
ranking list. The first round of the process included 38 participants with 
varied professional backgrounds. Consensus was reached for seven indicators 
after two rounds. Five indicators were related to distal outcomes (mortality, 
disability, or healthy life expectancy), one to monitoring functional 
assessments, and one to poverty levels. Health systems professionals should 
consider these comprehensive priority indicators in their efforts to provide a 
better health system for older people.

Publisher: El objetivo de este artículo es proporcionar una lista breve y 
consensuada de indicadores eficaces para medir la capacidad de respuesta del 
sistema de salud al atender las necesidades de las personas mayores que sean 
pertinentes para fundamentar las políticas públicas. Se realizó un estudio con 
el uso de eDelphi (el software para el método de Delfos), sin interacción 
directa entre las personas encuestadas. Se enviaron encuestas virtuales a 141 
participantes con experiencia en el análisis y el seguimiento de indicadores de 
salud, la gestión de sistemas de salud y la atención de salud de las personas 
mayores. Se utilizó una lista de referencia de 24 indicadores publicada con 
anterioridad. Los criterios para seleccionar los indicadores de alta prioridad 
fueron: utilidad como elemento de medición de la capacidad de respuesta de los 
sistemas de salud y utilidad para fundamentar las políticas. El consenso se 
definió como lo siguiente: un acuerdo ≥70% entre los participantes de que el 
indicador era de prioridad muy alta o alta; que ≥50% de los encuestados 
consideraran que tenía un mayor peso relativo que otros indicadores; y que 
estuviera entre los diez primeros lugares de la lista. En la primera ronda del 
proceso intervinieron 38 participantes con distintas competencias profesionales. 
Después de dos rondas, se llegó a un consenso respecto a siete indicadores. 
Cinco indicadores estaban relacionados con resultados a largo plazo (mortalidad, 
discapacidad o esperanza de vida sana), uno con el seguimiento de evaluaciones 
funcionales y uno con los niveles de pobreza. Los profesionales de los sistemas 
de salud deberían tener en cuenta estos indicadores prioritarios integrales al 
adoptar medidas tendientes a proporcionar un mejor sistema de salud para las 
personas mayores.

Publisher: Este artigo tem como objetivo fornecer uma breve lista consensual de 
indicadores efetivos para medir a capacidade de resposta de sistemas de saúde às 
necessidades das pessoas idosas, relevante para informar políticas públicas. Foi 
realizado um estudo eDelphi sem interação direta entre os entrevistados. 
Questionários virtuais foram enviados a 141 participantes com experiência em 
análise e monitoramento de indicadores de saúde, gestão de sistemas de saúde e 
atenção à saúde de pessoas idosas, tendo como base uma lista de 24 indicadores 
publicados anteriormente. Os critérios para seleção como indicadores de alta 
prioridade foram sua utilidade como marcador da capacidade de resposta do 
sistema de saúde e utilidade para informar políticas públicas. O consenso foi 
definido como: ≥70% de concordância entre os participantes de que o indicador 
tinha prioridade muito alta ou alta; avaliação por ≥50% dos entrevistados de que 
tinha um peso relativo maior do que outros indicadores; e posicionamento entre 
os 10 primeiros na lista de classificação. A primeira rodada do processo incluiu 
38 participantes com diversos perfis profissionais. Após duas rodadas, chegou-se 
a um consenso sobre sete indicadores. Cinco estavam relacionados a resultados 
distais (mortalidade, incapacidade ou expectativa de vida saudável), um ao 
monitoramento de avaliações funcionais e o último aos níveis de pobreza. Os 
profissionais de sistemas de saúde devem considerar esses indicadores 
prioritários abrangentes em seus esforços para oferecer um sistema de saúde 
melhor para as pessoas idosas.

DOI: 10.26633/RPSP.2023.103
PMCID: PMC10392236
PMID: 37534053


331. Recent Pat Anticancer Drug Discov. 2023 Aug 3. doi: 
10.2174/1574892818666230803100554. Online ahead of print.

Natural STAT3 inhibitors for cancer treatment: A Comprehensive Literature 
Review.

Zarezadeh SM(1), Sharafi AM(1), Erabi G(2), Tabashiri A(3), Teymouri N(4), 
Mehrabi H(5), Golzan SA(6), Faridzadeh A(7), Abdollahifar Z(8), Sami N(9), 
Arabpour J(10), Rahimi Z(11), Ansari A(12), Abbasi M(13), Azizi N(1), Tamimi 
A(14), Poudineh M(11), Deravi N(15).

Author information:
(1)Students' Scientific Research Center, School of Medicine, Tehran University 
of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Student Research Committee, Urmia university of medical sciences, Urmia, 
Iran.
(3)Student Research Committee, School of Medicine, Shahid Beheshti University of 
Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(4)Student Research Committee, Tabriz University of Medical Science, Tabriz, 
Iran, Immunology Research Center, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, 
Iran.
(5)Student research committee, School of Medicine, Arak University of medical 
sciences, Arak, Iran.
(6)Student Research Committee, Department of Food Science and Technology, 
National Nutrition and Food Technology Research Institute, Faculty of Nutrition 
Science and Food Technology, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, 
Tehran, Iran.
(7)Mashhad University of Medical Sciences department of immunology and allergy 
Mashhad Iran.
(8)Arak University of Medical Sciences student research committeee Arak Iran.
(9)Islamic Azad University Medical Branch of Tehran student research committeee 
Tehran Iran.
(10)Islamic Azad University Medical Branch of Tehran department of microbiology 
Tehran Iran.
(11)Zanjan University of Medical Sciences student research committeee Zanj?n 
Iran.
(12)North Khorasan University of Medical Sciences student research committeee 
Bojnourd Iran.
(13)Babol University of Medical Sciences student research committeee Babol Iran.
(14)Guilan University of Medical Sciences student research committeee Rasht 
Iran.
(15)Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences student research committeee 
Tehran Iran.

Cancer is one of the leading causes of mortality and morbidity worldwide, 
affecting millions of people physically and financially every year. Over time, 
many anticancer treatments have been proposed and studied, including synthetic 
compound consumption, surgical procedures, or grueling chemotherapy. Although 
these treatments have improved the daily life quality of patients and increased 
their survival rate and life expectancy, they have also shown significant 
drawbacks, including staggering costs, multiple side effects, and difficulty in 
compliance and adherence to treatment. Therefore, natural compounds have been 
considered a possible key to overcoming these problems in recent years, and 
thorough research has been done to assess their effectiveness. In these studies, 
scientists have discovered a meaningful interaction between several natural 
materials and signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 molecules. 
STAT3 is a transcriptional protein that is vital for cell growth and survival. 
Mechanistic studies have established that activated STAT3 can increase cancer 
cell proliferation and invasion while reducing anticancer immunity. Thus, 
inhibiting STAT3 signaling by natural compounds has become one of the favorite 
research topics and an attractive target for developing novel cancer treatments. 
In the present article, we intend to comprehensively review the latest knowledge 
about the effects of various organic compounds on inhibiting the STAT3 signaling 
pathway to cure different cancer diseases.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/1574892818666230803100554
PMID: 37534488


332. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 2023 Dec 1;55(12):2123-2131. doi: 
10.1249/MSS.0000000000003268. Epub 2023 Aug 2.

The Impact of Exercise Training and Supplemental Oxygen on Peripheral Muscles in 
Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease: A Randomized Controlled Trial.

Neunhäuserer D, Hudelmaier M(1), Niederseer D, Vecchiato M(2), Wirth W(1), 
Steidle-Kloc E(1), Kaiser B(3), Lamprecht B, Ermolao A(2), Studnicka M(3), 
Niebauer J.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Anatomy and Cell Biology, Paracelsus Medical University of 
Salzburg, Salzburg, AUSTRIA.
(2)Sports and Exercise Medicine Division, Department of Medicine, University of 
Padova, Padova, ITALY.
(3)University Clinic of Pneumology, Paracelsus Medical University of Salzburg, 
Salzburg, AUSTRIA.

OBJECTIVE: Exercise training is a cornerstone of the treatment of chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease, whereas the related interindividual heterogeneity 
in skeletal muscle dysfunction and adaptations are not yet fully understood. We 
set out to investigate the effects of exercise training and supplemental oxygen 
on functional and structural peripheral muscle adaptation.
METHODS: In this prospective, randomized, controlled, double-blind study, 28 
patients with nonhypoxemic chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (forced 
expiratory volume in 1 second, 45.92% ± 9.06%) performed 6 wk of combined 
endurance and strength training, three times a week while breathing either 
supplemental oxygen or medical air. The impact on exercise capacity, muscle 
strength, and quadriceps femoris muscle cross-sectional area (CSA) was assessed 
by maximal cardiopulmonary exercise testing, 10-repetition maximum strength test 
of knee extension, and magnetic resonance imaging, respectively.
RESULTS: After exercise training, patients demonstrated a significant increase 
in functional capacity, aerobic capacity, exercise tolerance, quadriceps muscle 
strength, and bilateral CSA. Supplemental oxygen affected significantly the 
training impact on peak work rate when compared with medical air (+0.20 ± 0.03 
vs +0.12 ± 0.03 W·kg -1 , P = 0.047); a significant increase in CSA (+3.9 ± 1.3 
cm 2 , P = 0.013) was only observed in the training group using oxygen. 
Supplemental oxygen and exercise-induced peripheral desaturation were identified 
as significant opposing determinants of muscle gain during this exercise 
training intervention, which led to different adaptations of CSA between the 
respective subgroups.
CONCLUSIONS: The heterogenous functional and structural muscle adaptations seem 
determined by supplemental oxygen and exercise-induced hypoxia. Indeed, 
supplemental oxygen may facilitate muscular training adaptations, particularly 
in limb muscle dysfunction, thereby contributing to the enhanced training 
responses on maximal aerobic and functional capacity.

Copyright © 2023 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. on 
behalf of the American College of Sports Medicine.

DOI: 10.1249/MSS.0000000000003268
PMCID: PMC10662626
PMID: 37535316 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


333. PLoS One. 2023 Aug 3;18(8):e0289080. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0289080. 
eCollection 2023.

Impact of severe mental illnesses on health-related quality of life among 
patients attending the Institute of Psychiatry, Rawalpindi from 2019 to 2021: A 
cross-sectional study.

Umar Z(1), Tahir Z(1), Nizami A(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Psychiatry, Benazir Bhutto hospital, Rawalpindi, Pakistan.

BACKGROUND: Severe mental illnesses have huge impact on health-related quality 
of life. They contribute to significant morbidity in terms of number of number 
of years of life lost in form DALYS (disability adjusted life years) and shorter 
life expectancy and early mortality. There is limited evidence on their burden 
in low- and middle-income countries like Pakistan.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the health-related quality of life in patients suffering 
from severe mental illness (schizophrenia, depression, and bipolar affective 
disorder) and demographic factors associated with poor health related quality of 
life in these patients.
METHODOLOGY: This was descriptive cross sectional, using retrospective record 
view of data. Study was done under IMPACT (Improving Mental And Physical health 
Together) Program, which conducted a multi-morbidity survey conducted at 
institute of psychiatry, Benazir Bhutto hospital, Rawalpindi, using EQ 5d 5l 
(EURO QOL 5D5L) questionnaire having both subjective (EQVAS) and objective 
domains.
RESULTS: The study included 922 SMI patients, of whom 555 participants (60.2%) 
were males and 367(39.69%) were females. The participants suffered from major 
depressive disorder (422;45.8%), followed by bipolar affective disorder (392; 
42.51%) and schizophrenia (108;11.7%). Most participants were in a younger age 
group with (80%) of population being below 50 years old and had education level 
below secondary education (57.4%). In the analysis of association between EQ-VAS 
(subjective quality of life scale) and demographic factors, a significant 
association was found for marital status(p<0.001), gender (p< 0.001) and 
education (p< 0.001). Women had lower EQ-VAS scores (M = 49.43±SD = 27.72) as 
compared to males (M = 58.81±SD = 27.1) and individuals with lower educational 
status also had lower mean scores. Additionally, participants who were single, 
divorced or widowed also had lower mean EQVAS scores. When health related 
quality of life was analyzed across SMI, it was lower in all SMI, but was 
significantly lower for depression in both subjective and objective domains of 
health related of quality-of-life instrument.
CONCLUSION: Health related quality of life is an important outcome measure and 
regular assessment of both subjective and objective aspects should be 
incorporated in management plans of patients suffering from severe mental 
illnesses.

Copyright: © 2023 Umar et al. This is an open access article distributed under 
the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits 
unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the 
original author and source are credited.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0289080
PMCID: PMC10399870
PMID: 37535604 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


334. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2023 Aug 3:dgad453. doi: 10.1210/clinem/dgad453.
Online  ahead of print.

Long-Term Consequences of Cushing's Syndrome: A Systematic Literature Review.

Puglisi S(1), Perini AME(1), Botto C(1), Oliva F(2), Terzolo M(1).

Author information:
(1)Internal Medicine, San Luigi Hospital, Department of Clinical and Biological 
Sciences, University of Turin, Orbassano, Italy.
(2)Clinical Psychology Unit, University Hospital "Città della Salute e della 
Scienza di Torino", Department of Clinical and Biological Sciences, University 
of Turin, Turin, Italy.

It is held that the condition of endogenous chronic hypersecretion of cortisol 
(Cushing's syndrome, CS), causes several comorbidities, including cardiovascular 
and metabolic disorders, musculoskeletal alterations, as well as cognitive and 
mood impairment. Therefore, CS has an adverse impact on the quality of life and 
life expectancy of affected patients. What it remains unclear is whether disease 
remission may induce a normalization of the associated comorbid conditions. In 
order to retrieve updated information on this issue, we conducted a systematic 
search using Pubmed and Embase databases to identify scientific papers published 
from January 1, 2000 to December 31, 2022. The initial search identified 1907 
potentially eligible records. Papers were screened for eligibility and a total 
of 79 were included and classified by the main topic (cardiometabolic risk, 
thromboembolic disease, bone impairment, muscle damage, mood disturbances and 
quality of life, cognitive impairment, and mortality). Although the limited 
patient numbers in many studies preclude definitive conclusions, most recent 
evidence supports the persistence of increased morbidity and mortality even 
after long-term remission. It is conceivable that the degree of normalization of 
the associated comorbid conditions depends on individual factors and 
characteristics of the conditions. These findings highlight the need for an 
early recognition and effective management of patients with CS that should 
include active treatment of the related comorbid conditions. In addition, it is 
important to maintain a surveillance strategy in all patients with CS, even many 
years after disease remission, and to actively pursue specific treatment of 
comorbid conditions beyond cortisol normalization.

© The Author(s) 2023. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Endocrine Society. All rights reserved. For permissions, please e-mail: 
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1210/clinem/dgad453
PMID: 37536275


335. Lancet Haematol. 2023 Sep;10(9):e713-e734. doi:
10.1016/S2352-3026(23)00160-6.  Epub 2023 Jul 31.

Prevalence, years lived with disability, and trends in anaemia burden by 
severity and cause, 1990-2021: findings from the Global Burden of Disease Study 
2021.

GBD 2021 Anaemia Collaborators.

Collaborators: Gardner WM, Razo C, McHugh TA, Hagins H, Vilchis-Tella VM, 
Hennessy C, Taylor HJ, Perumal N, Fuller K, Cercy KM, Zoeckler LZ, Chen CS, Lim 
SS, Aali A, Abate KH, Abd-Elsalam S, Abdurehman AM, Abebe G, Abidi H, Aboagye 
RG, Abolhassani H, Aboye GBA, Abtew YD, Accrombessi MMK, Adane DEA, Adane TD, 
Addo IY, Adesina MA, Adeyinka DA, Adnani QES, Afzal MS, Afzal S, Agustina R, 
Ahinkorah BO, Ahmad A, Ahmad S, Ahmadi S, Ahmed A, Ahmed Rashid T, Aiman W, 
Ajami M, Akbarialiabad H, Alahdab F, Al-Aly Z, Alam N, Alemayehu A, Alhassan RK, 
Ali MA, Almustanyir S, Al-Raddadi RM, Al-Rifai RH, Altirkawi KA, Alvand S, 
Alvis-Guzman N, Amer YSAD, Ameyaw EK, Amu H, Anagaw TF, Ancuceanu R, 
Anoushirvani AA, Antwi MH, Anvari D, Arabloo J, Aravkin AY, Ariffin H, Aripov T, 
Arja A, Arndt MB, Arulappan J, Aruleba RT, Ashraf T, Asresie MB, Athari SS, 
Atlaw D, Aujayeb A, Awoke AA, Awoke MA, Azadnajafabad S, Azangou-Khyavy M, B DB, 
Badawi A, Badiye AD, Baghcheghi N, Bagheri N, Bagherieh S, Baig AA, Banach M, 
Banik PC, Bantie AT, Barr RD, Barrow A, Bashiri A, Basu S, Batiha AM, Begum T, 
Belete MA, Belo L, Bensenor IM, Berhie AY, Bhagavathula AS, Bhardwaj N, Bhardwaj 
P, Bhat AN, Bhutta ZA, Bikbov B, Billah SM, Birara S, Bishai JD, Bitaraf S, 
Boloor A, Botelho JSB, Burkart K, Calina D, Cembranel F, Chakraborty PA, Chanie 
GS, Chattu VK, Chien JH, Chukwu IS, Chung E, Criqui MH, Cruz-Martins N, Dadras 
O, Dagnew GW, Dai X, Danawi HA, Dandona L, Dandona R, Darwesh AM, Das JK, Das S, 
De la Cruz-Góngora V, Demisse FW, Demissie S, Demsie DG, Desai HD, Desalegn MD, 
Dessalegn FN, Dessie G, Dharmaratne SD, Dhimal M, Dhingra S, Diaz D, Didehdar M, 
Dirac MA, Diress M, Doaei S, Dodangeh M, Doku PN, Dongarwar D, Dora BT, Dsouza 
HL, Edinur HA, Ekholuenetale M, Elagali AEM, Elbahnasawy MA, Elbarazi I, 
ElGohary GMT, Elhadi M, El-Huneidi W, Elmonem MA, Enyew DB, Eshetu HB, Ewald SB, 
Ezzeddini R, Fagbamigbe AF, Fasanmi AO, Fatehizadeh A, Fekadu G, Feyisa BR, 
Fischer F, Fitzgerald R, Foroutan M, Fowobaje KR, Gadanya MA, Gaidhane AM, 
Gaihre S, Gaipov A, Galali Y, Galehdar N, Garg P, Garg T, Gebremariam YH, 
Gebremedhin KB, Gebremichael B, Gela YY, Gerema U, Getacher L, Ghaffari K, 
Ghafourifard M, Ghamari SH, Ghasemi Nour M, Ghashghaee A, Gholamalizadeh M, 
Ghozy S, Gizaw ATT, Glasbey JC, Golechha M, Goleij P, Golitaleb M, Goulart AC, 
Goyomsa GG, Guadie HA, Gubari MIM, Gudisa Z, Gunawardane DA, Gupta R, Gupta RD, 
Gupta S, Gupta VK, Guta A, Habibzadeh P, Hamidi S, Handal AJ, Hanif A, Hannan 
MA, Harapan H, Harorani M, Hasaballah AI, Hasan MM, Hasani H, Hassankhani H, 
Hassen MB, Hay SI, Hayat K, Heidari G, Hess SY, Heyi DZ, Hezam K, Hiraike Y, 
Holla R, Hossain SJ, Hosseini K, Hosseini MS, Hosseinzadeh M, Hostiuc M, Hostiuc 
S, Huang J, Hussain S, Hussien FM, Ibitoye SE, Ilesanmi OS, Ilic IM, Immurana M, 
Inbaraj LR, Islam SMS, Ismail NE, J LM, Jamshidi E, Janodia MD, Jayarajah U, 
Jayaram S, Jebai R, Jemal B, Jeyakumar A, Jha RP, Jonas JB, Joseph N, Jozwiak 
JJ, Kabir A, Kalankesh LR, Kalhor R, Kamal VK, Kandel H, Kanko TK, Karaye IM, 
Kashoo FZ, Katoto PD, Kauppila JH, Kaur H, Kayode GA, Kebede AD, Keshri VR, 
Keykhaei M, Khader YS, Khajuria H, Khalid N, Khammarnia M, Khan IA, Khan MA, 
Khatab K, Khazaei Z, Khubchandani J, Kim YJ, Kimokoti RW, Kisa S, Kompani F, 
Kosen S, Koulmane Laxminarayana SL, Krishan K, Kuate Defo B, Kuddus M, Kumar GA, 
Kumar N, Kumar N, Kurmi OP, Kuti O, Lal DK, Landires I, Larsson AO, Lassi ZS, 
Latief K, Laxmaiah A, Ledda C, Lee SW, Legesse SM, Liu X, Lorenzovici L, Machado 
VSM, Mahajan PB, Mahjoub S, Mahmoodpoor A, Mahmoudi E, Malakan Rad E, Mallhi TH, 
Malta DC, Masoudi S, Masoumi SZ, Medina JRC, Mejia-Rodriguez F, Mendes JJM, 
Mendoza W, Mendoza-Cano O, Mentis AA, Meresa HA, Mestrovic T, Miazgowski T, 
Mirghafourvand M, Mirica A, Mirza M, Misganaw A, Misra S, Mohammad DK, Mohammadi 
S, Mohammed S, Mohan S, Moka N, Mokdad AH, Momtazmanesh S, Monasta L, Moni MA, 
Moosavi D, Moradi M, Mosapour A, Mostafavi E, Muche T, Mulita F, Mulu GB, Murray 
CJL, Musina AM, Mustafa G, Nagarajan AJ, Nair TS, Narasimha Swamy S, 
Nassereldine H, Natto ZS, Nayak BP, Naz S, Negoi I, Negoi RI, Nguefack-Tsague G, 
Ngunjiri JW, Niazi RK, Noori M, Nowroozi A, Nurrika D, Nuruzzaman KM, Nzoputam 
OJ, Oancea B, Obaidur RM, Obsa MMSS, Odhiambo JN, Ogunsakin RE, Okati-Aliabad H, 
Okonji OC, Oladunjoye AO, Oladunjoye OO, Olagunju AT, Olufadewa II, Omar Bali A, 
Omonisi AEE, Ortiz A, Owolabi MO, Padubidri JR, Pakzad R, Palicz T, Pandey A, 
Pandya AK, Papadopoulou P, Pardhan S, Patel J, Pathak A, Pathan AR, Paudel R, 
Paudel U, Pawar S, Pereira G, Perico N, Perna S, Perumalsamy N, Petcu IR, 
Pickering BV, Piracha ZZ, Pollok RCG, Pradhan PMS, Prashant A, Qattea I, Quazi 
Syed Z, Rahim F, Rahimi M, Rahman A, Rahman MHU, Rahman M, Rahmani AM, Rahmani 
S, Rai RK, Raimondo I, Rajaa S, Ram P, Rana J, Ranjha MMAN, Rao CR, Rao SJ, 
Rashedi S, Rashidi MM, Rawaf S, Rawal L, Raza RZ, Redwan EMM, Remuzzi G, Rezaei 
M, Rezaei N, Rezaei N, Richards T, Rickard J, Rodriguez JAB, Roever L, Roshandel 
G, Roy B, Rwegerera GM, Saad AMA, Sabour S, Saddik B, Sadeghi M, Sadeghian S, 
Saeed U, Sahebkar A, Sahoo H, Salem MR, Samy AM, Sankararaman S, Santoro R, 
Santos IS, Satpathy M, Saya GK, Seboka BT, Senbeta AM, Senthilkumaran S, Seylani 
A, Shafeghat M, Shah PA, Shaikh MA, Shanawaz M, Shannawaz M, Sharew MMS, Sharma 
P, Sheikhi RA, Shenoy SM, Shetty A, Shetty BSK, Shetty JK, Shetty PH, Shin JI, 
Shivalli S, Shivarov V, Shobeiri P, Shorofi SA, Sikder MK, Sima AR, Simegn W, 
Singh JA, Singh NP, Singh P, Singh S, Siraj MS, Sisay Y, Skryabina AA, Solomon 
Y, Song Y, Sorensen RJD, Stanaway JD, Suchdev PS, Sufiyan MB, Sultana S, Szeto 
MD, Tabaeian SP, Tahamtan A, Taheri M, Taheri Soodejani M, Tamir Z, Tan KK, 
Tariqujjaman M, Tarkang EE, Tat NY, Tefera YM, Temsah MH, Thapar R, Thiyagarajan 
A, Ticoalu JHV, Tigabu BM, Tiyuri A, Tobe-Gai R, Tovani-Palone MR, Tran MTN, 
Tusa BS, Ullah I, Umer AA, Unnikrishnan B, Vacante M, Valadan Tahbaz S, Valdez 
PR, Vart P, Varthya SB, Vaziri S, Verma MV, Veroux M, Vervoort D, Vu LG, Wagaye 
B, Weldegebreal F, Wickramasinghe ND, Woldemariam M, Wonde TE, Wubetie GA, Xu X, 
Yari K, Yazdanpanah F, Yehualashet SS, Yigit A, Yiğit V, Yisihak E, Yon DK, 
Yonemoto N, Young MF, Yu C, Yunusa I, Zahir M, Zaki L, Zaman BA, Zamora N, Zare 
I, Zareshahrabadi Z, Zenebe GA, Zhang ZJ, Zheng P, Zoladl M, Kassebaum NJ.

Erratum in
    Lancet Haematol. 2023 Oct;10(10):e796.

Comment in
    Lancet Haematol. 2023 Sep;10(9):e702-e704.

BACKGROUND: Anaemia is a major health problem worldwide. Global estimates of 
anaemia burden are crucial for developing appropriate interventions to meet 
current international targets for disease mitigation. We describe the 
prevalence, years lived with disability, and trends of anaemia and its 
underlying causes in 204 countries and territories.
METHODS: We estimated population-level distributions of haemoglobin 
concentration by age and sex for each location from 1990 to 2021. We then 
calculated anaemia burden by severity and associated years lived with disability 
(YLDs). With data on prevalence of the causes of anaemia and associated 
cause-specific shifts in haemoglobin concentrations, we modelled the proportion 
of anaemia attributed to 37 underlying causes for all locations, years, and 
demographics in the Global Burden of Disease Study 2021.
FINDINGS: In 2021, the global prevalence of anaemia across all ages was 24·3% 
(95% uncertainty interval [UI] 23·9-24·7), corresponding to 1·92 billion 
(1·89-1·95) prevalent cases, compared with a prevalence of 28·2% (27·8-28·5) and 
1·50 billion (1·48-1·52) prevalent cases in 1990. Large variations were observed 
in anaemia burden by age, sex, and geography, with children younger than 5 
years, women, and countries in sub-Saharan Africa and south Asia being 
particularly affected. Anaemia caused 52·0 million (35·1-75·1) YLDs in 2021, and 
the YLD rate due to anaemia declined with increasing Socio-demographic Index. 
The most common causes of anaemia YLDs in 2021 were dietary iron deficiency 
(cause-specific anaemia YLD rate per 100 000 population: 422·4 [95% UI 
286·1-612·9]), haemoglobinopathies and haemolytic anaemias (89·0 [58·2-123·7]), 
and other neglected tropical diseases (36·3 [24·4-52·8]), collectively 
accounting for 84·7% (84·1-85·2) of anaemia YLDs.
INTERPRETATION: Anaemia remains a substantial global health challenge, with 
persistent disparities according to age, sex, and geography. Estimates of 
cause-specific anaemia burden can be used to design locally relevant health 
interventions aimed at improving anaemia management and prevention.
FUNDING: Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.

Copyright © 2023 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an Open 
Access article under the CC BY 4.0 license. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S2352-3026(23)00160-6
PMCID: PMC10465717
PMID: 37536353 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests S Afzal reports 
participation on a data safety monitoring board or advisory board with the 
National Bioethics Committee of Pakistan, King Edward Medical University 
Institutional Review Board, and the Ethics Review Board in Board of Studies; a 
leadership or fiduciary role with the Pakistan Association of Medical Editors, 
as a Fellow of Faculty of Public Health (FFPH) Royal Colleges UK, and an 
advocacy role in the Society of Prevention and Advocacy Research with King 
Edward Medical University, Lahore, Pakistan, all outside the submitted work. R 
Agustina reports leadership or fiduciary roles with the Multiple Micronutrient 
Supplementation Technical Advisory Group of the New York Academy of Sciences and 
with the Indonesia Technical Advisory Board for Multimicronutrient 
Supplemenation, outside the submitted work. R Ancuceanu reports payment or 
honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing or 
educational events from AbbVie, Sandoz, B Braun, and Laropharm, outside the 
submitted work. S Das is a member of the Personalized Medicine Division of the 
American Association of Clinical Chemistry and a member of the Royal College of 
Biology; and reports other financial interests through a research grant of 1·6 
million INR from the Department of Science and Technology, Government of India; 
all outside the submitted work. C Hennessy reports support for the present work 
from the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation and the Center for Health 
System Effectiveness. N E Ismail is a council member of the Malaysian Academy of 
Pharmacy, outside the submitted work. J J Jozwiak reports payment or honoraria 
for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing or educational 
events from Novartis and Adamed as personal payments, outside the submitted 
work. N J Kassebaum reports support for this manuscript from the Bill & Melinda 
Gates Foundation as grant payments to their institution (Institute of Health 
Metrics and Evaluation, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA). K Krishan 
reports non-financial support from UGC Centre of Advanced Study, CAS II, 
Department of Anthropology, Panjab University, Chandigarh, India, outside the 
submitted work. W Mendoza is a staff member at the UNFPA Peru Country Office, 
which does not necessarily endorse these results. A-F A Mentis reports grants or 
contracts from MilkSafe: a novel pipeline to enrich formula milk using omics 
technologies, a project co-financed by the European Regional Development Fund of 
the European Union and Greek national funds through the Operational Program 
Competitiveness, Entrepreneurship and Innovation, under the call RESEARCH – 
CREATE – INNOVATE (project code T2EDK-02222) and from ELIDEK (Hellenic 
Foundation for Research and Innovation, MIMS-860); has received payment for 
expert testimony as a peer-reviewer for Fondazione Cariplo, Italy; serves as an 
editorial board member for the journals Systematic Reviews and Annals of 
Epidemiology, and as an Associate Editor for Translational Psychiatry; and is a 
scientific officer with the BGI Group; all outside the submitted work. N Moka is 
Treasurer of the Kentucky Society of Clinical Oncology, outside the submitted 
work. A Ortiz reports grants or contracts from Sanofi as payments to their 
institution (IIS-Fundacion Jiménez Díaz UAM, Madrid, Spain); consulting fees 
from Advicienne, Astellas Pharma, AstraZeneca, Amicus Therapeutics, Amgen, 
Boehringer Ingelheim, Fresenius Medical Care, GSK, Bayer, Sanofi-Genzyme, 
Menarini, Mundipharma, Kyowa Kirin, Lilly, Alexion Pharmaceuticals, Freeline 
Therapeutics, Idorsia, Chiesi, Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Novo Nordisk, Sysmex, and 
Vifor Fresenius Medical Care Renal Pharma; support for travel from Advicienne, 
Astellas Pharma, AstraZeneca, Amicus Therapeutics, Amgen, Boehringer Ingelheim, 
Fresenius Medical Care, GSK, Bayer, Sanofi-Genzyme, Menarini, Mundipharma, Kyowa 
Kirin, Lilly, Alexion Pharmaceuticals, Freeline Therapeutics, Idorsia, Chiesi, 
Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Novo Nordisk, Sysmex, and Vifor Fresenius Medical Care 
Renal Pharma; a leadership or fiduciary role with the European Renal 
Association, a role as Director of the Catedra Mundipharma-UAM of diabetic 
kidney disease and the Catedra AstraZeneca-UAM of chronic kidney disease and 
electrolytes; and stock or stock options in Telara Pharma; all outside the 
submitted work. Z Quazi Syed reports support for this manuscript from the South 
Asia Infant Feeding Research Network and Datta Meghe Institute of Higher 
Education and Research, Wardha, India; grants or contracts from the Global 
Consortium for Public Health and Research and Datta Meghe Institute of Higher 
Education and Research; support for attending meetings and/or travel from the 
Division of Evidence Synthesis, Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College, Wardha, India, 
and Datta Meghe Institute of Medical Sciences, Wardha, India, outside the 
submitted work. T Richards reports grants or contracts from Vifor Pharma for 
PREVENT laboratory analysis; consulting fees from BioAge Labs for a clinical 
trial design; payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers 
bureaus, manuscript writing or educational events from Pharmacosmos through the 
CAVIAR education grant and from Pfizer for the IRONWOMAN trial; support for 
attending meetings from Pfizer, Pharmacosmos, and Vifor Pharma; a role as 
treasurer with NATA; and a role as Director of The Iron Clinic; all outside the 
submitted work. V Shivarov is an employee of ICON and reports stock or stock 
options in the company, all outside the submitted work. J A Singh reports 
consulting fees from Crealta/Horizon, MediSys, Fidia Farmaceutici, PK Med, Two 
Labs, Adept Field Solutions, Clinical Care Options, Clearview Healthcare 
Partners, Putnam Associates, Focus Forward, Navigant Consulting, Spherix Global 
Insights, Mediq, Jupiter Life Science, UBM, Trio Health, Medscape, WebMD, and 
Practice Point Communications, the National Institutes of Health, and the 
American College of Rheumatology; payment or honoraria for speakers bureaus from 
Simply Speaking; support for attending meetings or travel from the steering 
committee of OMERACT; participation on a data safety monitoring board or 
advisory board with the US Food and Drug Administration Arthritis Advisory 
Committee; membership of the steering committee of OMERACT, a role as Chair 
(unpaid) of the Veterans Affairs Rheumatology Field Advisory Committee, and 
roles as Editor and Director (unpaid) with the UAB Cochrane Musculoskeletal 
Group Satellite Center on Network Meta-analysis; stock or stock options in TPT 
Global Tech, Vaxart Pharmaceuticals, Aytu BioPharma, Adaptimmune Therapeutics, 
GeoVax Labs, Pieris Pharmaceuticals, Enzolytics, Seres Therapeutics, Tonix 
Pharmaceuticals, and Charlotte's Web Holdings, and previous stock options in 
Amarin, Viking Therapeutics, and Moderna Pharmaceuticals; all outside the 
submitted work. J D Stanaway reports support for this manuscript from the Bill & 
Melinda Gates Foundation as grants to their institution (Institute of Health 
Metrics and Evaluation, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA). P S Suchdev 
reports grants or contracts from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 
(CDC) and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, all outside the submitted work. M 
F Young reports grants from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and the CDC for 
a project titled Biomarkers reflecting inflammation and nutritional determinants 
of anemia (BRINDA) and from the National Institutes of Health for a project 
titled Mother–child hemoglobin at preconception and first 1000 days and child 
development at 6 years; roles in the Lancet Haematology Commission on anaemia, 
the Anaemia Evidence Gap Map Advisory Group, as a subject matter expert on the 
advisory committee related to the Improving Estimates of Anemia in Global Burden 
of Disease research project, as a member of the technical advisory group for the 
Redefining Maternal Anaemia in Pregnancy and Postpartum project and a member of 
the WHO Guideline Development Group for Anemia; all outside the submitted work. 
All other authors declare no competing interests.


336. Europace. 2023 Aug 2;25(9):euad239. doi: 10.1093/europace/euad239.

Modern subcutaneous implantable defibrillator therapy in patients with 
cardiomyopathies and channelopathies: data from a large multicentre registry.

Migliore F(1), Biffi M(2), Viani S(3), Pittorru R(1), Francia P(4), Pieragnoli 
P(5), De Filippo P(6), Bisignani G(7), Nigro G(8), Dello Russo A(9), Pisanò 
E(10), Palmisano P(11), Rapacciuolo A(12), Silvetti MS(13), Lavalle C(14), 
Curcio A(15), Rordorf R(16), Lovecchio M(17), Valsecchi S(17), D'Onofrio A(18), 
Botto GL(19).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiac, Thoracic Vascular Sciences and Public Health, 
University of Padova, Padova, Italy.
(2)Institute of Cardiology, Department of Experimental, Diagnostic and Specialty 
Medicine, University of Bologna, Policlinico S.Orsola-Malpighi, Bologna, Italy.
(3)Second Cardiology Division, Cardio-Thoracic and Vascular Department, 
University Hospital of Pisa, Pisa, Italy.
(4)Cardiology, Department of Clinical and Molecular Medicine, Sant'Andrea 
Hospital, University Sapienza, Rome, Italy.
(5)Arrhythmic Disease Unit, University of Florence, Florence, Italy.
(6)Cardiac Electrophysiology and Pacing Unit, Papa Giovanni XXIII Hospital, 
Bergamo, Italy.
(7)Division of Cardiology, Castrovillari Hospital, Cosenza, Italy.
(8)Department of Translational Medical Sciences, University of Campania 'Luigi 
Vanvitelli', Naples, Italy.
(9)Cardiology and Arrhythmology Clinic, Università Politecnica delle Marche, 
Ancona, Italy.
(10)Cardiology Unit, 'Vito Fazzi' Hospital, Lecce, Italy.
(11)Cardiology Unit, 'Card. G. Panico' Hospital, Tricase, Italy.
(12)Department of Advanced Biomedical Sciences, Federico II University of 
Naples, Naples, Italy.
(13)Pediatric Cardiology and Cardiac Arrhythmia/Syncope Unit, Bambino Gesù 
Children's Hospital IRCCS, Rome, Italy.
(14)Cardiology Department, Policlinico Umberto I - La Sapienza University, Rome, 
Italy.
(15)Dipartimento di Scienze Mediche e Chirurgiche, Università degli Studi Magna 
Graecia, Campus di Germaneto, Catanzaro, Italy.
(16)Cardiac Intensive Care Unit, Arrhythmia and Electrophysiology and 
Experimental Cardiology, IRCCS Fondazione Policlinico S. Matteo, Pavia, Italy.
(17)Cardiac Rhythm Management Division, Boston Scientific, Milan, Italy.
(18)'Unità Operativa di Elettrofisiologia, Studio e Terapia delle Aritmie', 
Monaldi Hospital, Naples, Italy.
(19)Department of Clinical cardiology and Electrophysiology ASST Rhodense, Rho 
and Garbagnate M.se, Milan, Italy.

AIMS: Patients with cardiomyopathies and channelopathies are usually younger and 
have a predominantly arrhythmia-related prognosis; they have nearly normal life 
expectancy thanks to the protection against sudden cardiac death provided by the 
implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD). The subcutaneous ICD (S-ICD) is an 
effective alternative to the transvenous ICD and has evolved over the years. 
This study aimed to evaluate the rate of inappropriate shocks (IS), appropriate 
therapies, and device-related complications in patients with cardiomyopathies 
and channelopathies who underwent modern S-ICD implantation.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We enrolled consecutive patients with cardiomyopathies and 
channelopathies who had undergone implantation of a modern S-ICD from January 
2016 to December 2020 and who were followed up until December 2022. A total of 
1338 S-ICD implantations were performed within the observation period. Of these 
patients, 628 had cardiomyopathies or channelopathies. The rate of IS at 12 
months was 4.6% [95% confidence interval (CI): 2.8-6.9] in patients with 
cardiomyopathies and 1.1% (95% CI: 0.1-3.8) in patients with channelopathies (P 
= 0.032). No significant differences were noted over a median follow-up of 43 
months [hazard ratio (HR): 0.76; 95% CI: 0.45-1.31; P = 0.351]. The rate of 
appropriate shocks at 12 months was 2.3% (95% CI: 1.1-4.1) in patients with 
cardiomyopathies and 2.1% (95% CI: 0.6-5.3) in patients with channelopathies (P 
= 1.0). The rate of device-related complications was 0.9% (95% CI: 0.3-2.3) and 
3.2% (95% CI: 1.2-6.8), respectively (P = 0.074). No significant differences 
were noted over the entire follow-up. The need for pacing was low, occurring in 
0.8% of patients.
CONCLUSION: Modern S-ICDs may be a valuable alternative to transvenous ICDs in 
patients with cardiomyopathies and channelopathies. Our findings suggest that 
modern S-ICD therapy carries a low rate of IS.
CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: URL: http://clinicaltrials.gov/Identifier: 
NCT02275637.

© The Author(s) 2023. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
European Society of Cardiology.

DOI: 10.1093/europace/euad239
PMCID: PMC10438213
PMID: 37536671 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


337. Clin Ther. 2023 Oct;45(10):965-972. doi: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2023.07.014.
Epub  2023 Aug 1.

Cost-effectiveness of Trastuzumab Deruxtecan for HER2-low Advanced Breast Cancer 
in the United States.

Peng Y(1), Wang L(1), Peng L(1), Liu Q(2), Yi L(2), Luo X(2), Li S(3), Qin S(1), 
Wan X(1), Tan C(1), Chen G(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, the Second Xiangya Hospital of Central South 
University, Changsha, China; Institute of Clinical Pharmacy, Central South 
University, Changsha, China.
(2)Department of Pharmacy, the Second Xiangya Hospital of Central South 
University, Changsha, China.
(3)The Nethersole School of Nursing, Faculty of Medicine, The Chinese University 
of Hong Kong, Hong Kong SAR, China.
(4)Department of Nephrology, The Second Xiangya Hospital, Central South 
University, Changsha, China; Hunan Key Laboratory of Kidney Disease and Blood 
Purification, the Second Xiangya Hospital of Central South University, Changsha, 
China; Clinical Immunology Research Center of Central South University, 
Changsha, China. Electronic address: guochunchen@csu.edu.cn.

PURPOSE: Trastuzumab deruxtecan has been shown to be effective for advanced 
breast cancer with low levels of human epidermal growth factor receptor 2. To 
optimize the allocation of limited health care resources, this study evaluated 
the cost-effectiveness of trastuzumab deruxtecan from the US payer perspective.
METHODS: A partitioned survival model was developed to project the disease 
course of advanced breast cancer. Clinical efficacy, treatment utilization, 
safety, and cost data were gathered from the DESTINY-Breast04 (Trastuzumab 
Deruxtecan in Previously Treated HER2-Low Advanced Breast Cancer) trial and the 
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services. Transition probabilities were obtained 
from the reported survival probabilities per DESTINY-Breast04 group. The 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER), the incremental monetary benefit, 
and the incremental net health benefit were measured. One-way sensitivity 
analysis, probabilistic sensitivity analysis, and subgroup analysis were 
performed to explore the uncertainty of the model.
FINDINGS: Trastuzumab deruxtecan had an ICER of $307,751 per quality-adjusted 
life-year (QALY) gained, with an incremental net health benefit of -0.317 QALY 
and an incremental monetary benefit of -$63,313 compared with the physician's 
choice of alternative chemotherapy agents. Subgroup analysis indicated that 
trastuzumab deruxtecan had an ICER of $383,776 per QALY gained for the hormone 
receptor-positive subgroup and an ICER of $194,424 per QALY for the hormone 
receptor-negative subgroup. One-way sensitivity analysis showed that the cost of 
trastuzumab deruxtecan had the most impact on model outcomes. The 
cost-effectiveness acceptability curve projected that the probability of 
trastuzumab deruxtecan being cost-effective was 5% in the overall population, 2% 
in the hormone receptor-positive subgroup, and 56% in the hormone 
receptor-negative subgroup at the willingness-to-pay threshold of $200,000 per 
QALY.
IMPLICATIONS: Trastuzumab deruxtecan may be a cost-effective option for hormone 
receptor-negative patients with advanced breast cancer with low levels of human 
epidermal growth factor receptor 2.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2023.07.014
PMID: 37537015 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
have indicated that they have no other conflicts of interest with regard to the 
content of the article.


338. BMC Cancer. 2023 Aug 3;23(1):724. doi: 10.1186/s12885-023-11212-7.

Involved site radiation therapy in stage I-III nasopharyngeal carcinoma with 
limited lymph node burden (ISRT-NPC) or elective region irradiation: a study 
protocol for a multicenter non-inferiority randomized controlled phase III 
clinical trial.

Liu Y(1), Han Y(2), Liu F(2), Hu D(3), Chen Z(4), Wang P(5), Li J(6), Qin J(7), 
Jin F(8), Li Y(1), Wang J(9), Yi J(10)(11).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, National Clinical Research Center for 
Cancer/Cancer Hospital, National Cancer Center, Chinese Academy of Medical 
Sciences and Peking Union Medical College, 17 Panjiayuan Nanli, Chaoyang 
District, Beijing, 100021, China.
(2)Department of Radiation Oncology, Hubei Cancer Hospital, Wuhan, 430079, Hubei 
Province, China.
(3)Department of Radiation Oncology, Hunan Cancer Hospital, Changsha, 410013, 
Hunan Province, China.
(4)Department of Radiation Oncology, Guizhou Cancer Hospital, Guiyang, 550000, 
Guizhou Province, China.
(5)Department of Radiation Oncology, Jiangxi Cancer Hospital, Nanchang, 330029, 
Jiangxi Province, China.
(6)Department of Radiation Oncology, Tianjin Medical University Cancer Institute 
& Hospital, Tianjin, 300060, China.
(7)Department of Radiation Oncology, Yunnan Cancer Hospital, Kunming, 650100, 
Yunnan Province, China.
(8)Department of Radiation Oncology, Cancer hospital Chinese academy of medical 
science, Shenzhen center, Shenzhen, 518127, Guangzhou Province, China.
(9)Department of Radiation Oncology, National Clinical Research Center for 
Cancer/Cancer Hospital, National Cancer Center, Chinese Academy of Medical 
Sciences and Peking Union Medical College, 17 Panjiayuan Nanli, Chaoyang 
District, Beijing, 100021, China. wangjingbo201001@163.com.
(10)Department of Radiation Oncology, National Clinical Research Center for 
Cancer/Cancer Hospital, National Cancer Center, Chinese Academy of Medical 
Sciences and Peking Union Medical College, 17 Panjiayuan Nanli, Chaoyang 
District, Beijing, 100021, China. yijunlin1969@163.com.
(11)Department of Radiation Oncology, National Cancer Center/National Clinical 
Research Center for Cancer/Hebei Cancer Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical 
Sciences (CAMS), Tongxi Road, Guangyang District, Langfang, 065001, Hebei 
Province, China. yijunlin1969@163.com.

BACKGROUND: Current radiotherapy guidelines and consensus statements uniformly 
recommend elective region irradiation (ERI) as the standard strategy for 
nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC). However, given the scarcity of skip-metastasis, 
the improved assessment accuracy of nodal involvement, and the striking 
advancements in chemotherapy for NPC, a one-fits-all delineation scheme for 
clinical target volumes of the nodal region (CTVn) may not be appropriate 
anymore, and modifications of the CTVn delineation strategy may be warranted. 
Involved site irradiation (ISI) covering merely the initially involved nodal 
site and potential extranodal extension has been confirmed to be as effective as 
ERI with decreased radiation-related toxicities in some malignancies, but has 
not yet been investigated in NPC. This study aims to compare the regional 
control, survival outcomes, radiation-related toxicities, and quality of life 
(QoL) of ISI with conventional ERI in NPC patients with a limited nodal burden.
METHODS: ISRT-NPC is a prospective, multicenter, open-label, noninferiority, 
phase III randomized controlled trial. A total of 414 patients will be randomly 
assigned in a 1:1 ratio to receive ISI or ERI. Randomization will be stratified 
by institution scale and N stage. Generally, in the ISI group, the high-risk 
CTV1 (dose: 60 Gy) includes a 1-cm expansion of the positive LN as well as the 
VIIa and the retrostyloid space above the bilateral transverse process of the 
atlantoaxial spine (C1), regardless of N status. The low-risk CTV2 (dose: 50 Gy) 
covers the cervical nodal region with a 3-cm caudal expansion below the 
transverse process of C1 for N0 disease and a 3-cm expansion below the positive 
LN for positive LNs.
DISCUSSION: The results of this trial are expected to confirm that ISI is a 
non-inferior strategy to ERI in stage I-III patients with low LN burden, 
enabling the minimization of treatment-related toxicity and improvement of 
long-term QoL without compromising regional control.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrails.gov, NCT05145660. Registered December 6, 
2021.

© 2023. BioMed Central Ltd., part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1186/s12885-023-11212-7
PMCID: PMC10401746
PMID: 37537541 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


339. Can J Psychiatry. 2023 Aug 3:7067437231193887. doi:
10.1177/07067437231193887.  Online ahead of print.

Mortality Rate and Causes of Death in a Canadian Tertiary Schizophrenia Program.

Timm MJ(1), Robertson CL(2), Zhand N(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.
(2)Schizophrenia Recovery Program, The Royal Ottawa Mental Health Centre, 
Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.

DOI: 10.1177/07067437231193887
PMID: 37537872


340. J Surg Oncol. 2023 Sep;128(3):438-444. doi: 10.1002/jso.27403.

Metastasectomy for oligometastatic bone disease of the appendicular skeleton: A 
concise review.

Kafchinski LA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, University of Alabama at Birmingham, 
Birmingham, Alabama, USA.

As the life expectancy of patients with carcinomas improves, there is an 
associated increase in the risk of development of metastatic bone disease. 
Patients with solitary or oligometastatic bone disease of the appendicular 
skeleton may benefit from metastasectomy and reconstruction to improve overall 
survival. Specifically, patients with renal cell carcinoma and a solitary 
metastatic bone lesion will have long-term survival benefit from metastasectomy 
and reconstruction. There remains controversy in the literature about 
metastasectomy for solitary metastatic bone disease in other common carcinomas, 
such as breast and thyroid.

© 2023 The Authors. Journal of Surgical Oncology published by Wiley Periodicals 
LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/jso.27403
PMID: 37537980 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


341. Front Genet. 2023 Jul 19;14:1217952. doi: 10.3389/fgene.2023.1217952. 
eCollection 2023.

Muscle transcriptome analysis provides new insights into the growth gap between 
fast- and slow-growing Sinocyclocheilus grahami.

Yin Y(1)(2)(3)(4), Zhang Y(1)(2)(3), Hua Z(5), Wu A(1)(2)(3), Pan X(1)(2)(3), 
Yang J(1)(2)(3), Wang X(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Genetic Resources and Evolution, Kunming Institute of 
Zoology, Innovative Academy of Seed Design, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 
Kunming, Yunnan, China.
(2)Yunnan Key Laboratory of Plateau Fish Breeding, Kunming Institute of Zoology, 
Chinese Academy of Sciences, Kunming, Yunnan, China.
(3)Yunnan Engineering Research Center for Plateau-Lake Health and Restoration, 
Kunming Institute of Zoology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Kunming, Yunnan, 
China.
(4)Kunming College of Life Science, University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, 
Beijing, China.
(5)Fishery Technology Extension Station of Yunnan, Kunming, Yunnan, China.

Sinocyclocheilus grahami is an economically valuable and famous fish in Yunnan 
Province, China. However, given its slow growth (40 g/2 years) and large growth 
differences among individuals, its growth performance needs to be improved for 
sustainable future use, in which molecular breeding technology can play an 
important role. In the current study, we conducted muscle transcriptomic 
analysis to investigate the growth gaps among individuals and the mechanism 
underlying growth within 14 fast- and 14 slow-growth S. grahami. In total, 1,647 
differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were obtained, including 947 up-regulated 
and 700 down-regulated DEGs in fast-growth group. Most DEGs were significantly 
enriched in ECM-receptor interaction, starch and sucrose metabolism, 
glycolysis/gluconeogenesis, pyruvate metabolism, amino acids biosynthesis and 
metabolism, peroxisome, and PPAR signaling pathway. Some genes related to 
glycogen degradation, glucose transport, and glycolysis (e.g., adipoq, prkag1, 
slc2a1, agl, pygm, pgm1, pfkm, gapdh, aldoa, pgk1, pgam2, bpgm, and eno3) were 
up-regulated, while some genes related to fatty acid degradation and transport 
(e.g., acox1, acaa1, fabp1b.1, slc27a1, and slc27a2) and amino acid metabolism 
(e.g., agxt, shmt1, glula, and cth) were down-regulated in the fast-growth 
group. Weighted gene co-expression network analysis identified col1a1, col1a2, 
col5a1, col6a2, col10a1, col26a1, bglap, and krt15 as crucial genes for S. 
grahami growth. Several genes related to bone and muscle growth (e.g., bmp2, 
bmp3, tgfb1, tgfb2, gdf10, and myog) were also up-regulated in the fast-growth 
group. These results suggest that fast-growth fish may uptake adequate energy 
(e.g., glucose, fatty acid, and amino acids) from fodder, with excess energy 
substances used to synthesize collagen to accelerate bone and muscle growth 
after normal life activities are maintained. Moreover, energy uptake may be the 
root cause, while collagen synthesis may be the direct reason for the growth gap 
between fast- and slow-growth fish. Hence, improving food intake and collagen 
synthesis may be crucial for accelerating S. grahami growth, and further 
research is required to fully understand and confirm these associations.

Copyright © 2023 Yin, Zhang, Hua, Wu, Pan, Yang and Wang.

DOI: 10.3389/fgene.2023.1217952
PMCID: PMC10394708
PMID: 37538358

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


342. Res Pract Thromb Haemost. 2023 May 25;7(4):100195. doi: 
10.1016/j.rpth.2023.100195. eCollection 2023 May.

Extended half-life factor IX prophylaxis up to every 21 days in hemophilia B: a 
longitudinal analysis of the efficacy and safety in selected adult patients.

Pabinger I(1), Lissitchkov T(2), Nagao A(3), Lepatan LM(4), Li Y(5), Seifert 
W(6), Mancuso ME(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Division of Haematology and Haemostaseology, Medical Clinic I, 
Medical University Vienna, Vienna, Austria.
(2)Department of Coagulation Disorders and Anemia, Specialized Hospital for 
Active Treatment Joan Pavel, Sofia, Bulgaria.
(3)Department of Hematology, Ogikubo Hospital, Tokyo, Japan.
(4)Perpetual Succour Hospital, Cebu, Philippines.
(5)CSL Behring, King of Prussia, Pennsylvania, USA.
(6)CSL Behring, Marburg, Germany.
(7)Center for Thrombosis and Hemorrhagic Diseases, IRCCS Humanitas Research 
Hospital, Rozzano, Milan, Italy.
(8)Humanitas University, Pieve Emanuele, Milan, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Extended half-life factor IX (FIX) products have revolutionized 
prophylactic treatment for patients with hemophilia B as patients maintain 
protective FIX levels with minimal occurrence of spontaneous bleeding. rIX-FP is 
an extended half-life FIX product that allows prolonged dosing intervals.
OBJECTIVES: To assess individualized and prolonged prophylactic dosing interval 
up to 21 days in adult patients (≥18 years) with hemophilia B in the rIX-FP 
clinical trial program.
METHODS: Patients who were included in the PROLONG-9FP phase III study or who 
received rIX-FP during surgery could continue into an extension study for 
long-term assessment. Patients began 7-day prophylaxis with rIX-FP, and after 6 
months, they could extend dosing intervals to every 14 days. In the extension 
study, adult patients could switch to a 21-day regimen if well-controlled on a 
14-day regimen.
RESULTS: Eleven patients transitioned from a 7-day prophylaxis regimen to a 
14-day regimen and finally to a 21-day regimen, 5 of whom were treated on demand 
at enrollment. Patients who switched to the 21-day regimen had a median 
annualized spontaneous bleeding rate of 0.0 across all regimens. The median 
observed FIX activity remained >5 IU/dL until day 21 after a single 100-IU/kg 
dose of rIX-FP. After 6 months on the 21-day regimen, 2 patients switched back 
to a 14-day regimen. No inhibitors, anaphylactic reactions, or thromboembolic 
events occurred.
CONCLUSION: Patients who are well controlled on a once-weekly regimen might 
extend their treatment interval to 14 days, and in adult patients, further 
extension to up to 21 days (100 IU/kg) may be considered.

