
Copyright © 2023 Pane, Marra, Aliberti, Campanile, Coscetta, Crisci, D'Assante, 
Marsili, Puorro, Salzano, Cittadini and Saccà.

DOI: 10.3389/fnins.2023.1260977
PMCID: PMC10513368
PMID: 37746147

Conflict of interest statement: FS received public speaking honoraria from 
Alexion, argenx, Genpharm, Medison, Novartis. He also received compensation for 
Advisory boards or consultation fees from Alexion, Almirall, argenx, Avexis, 
Dianthus, Lexeo Therapeutics, Novartis, Novatek, Reata, Takeda. He has acted as 
Principal Investigator in trials from Alexion, argenx, Immunovant, Novartis, 
Sanofi. The remaining authors declare that the research was conducted in the 
absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could be construed as 
a potential conflict of interest.


895. J Cardiovasc Nurs. 2023 Sep 25. doi: 10.1097/JCN.0000000000001045. Online
ahead  of print.

General Factors That Reduce Cardiovascular Risk in People With Schizophrenia: A 
Systematic Review.

Al-Kayed J, Okoli CC.

BACKGROUND: The life expectancy of individuals with schizophrenia in the United 
States is 20% shorter than that of the general population owing to 
cardiovascular disease (CVD). It is crucial to identify the factors that reduce 
CVD risk in these individuals.
OBJECTIVE: In this systematic review, we examined the factors associated with 
CVD in people with schizophrenia.
METHODS: We searched 3 electronic databases for English articles published 
before April 2023. Investigators assessed the factors associated with 2 
cardiovascular health outcomes among people with schizophrenia: the 10-year 
coronary heart disease (CHD)/CVD risk and peak oxygen uptake (VO2Peak/max).
RESULTS: We retrieved 17 studies from the search. Investigators examined factors 
affecting 10-year CHD/CVD risk in 11 studies and VO2Peak/max in 6 studies among 
people with schizophrenia. We found that individuals who had low metabolic 
symptoms (ie, hypertension and hyperglycemia), did not smoke, engaged in 
continuous CVD risk assessments, had a shorter duration of the diagnosis and 
hospitalization, and were of normal weight had a lower 10-year CHD/CVD risk. 
Furthermore, individuals who engaged in specific physical activity had a higher 
VO2Peak/max. Finally, those taking antipsychotic medications had a higher 
10-year CHD/CVD risk and a lower VO2Peak/max.
CONCLUSIONS: The CVD risk factors observed in the general population are common 
among people with schizophrenia. When these risk factors are controlled, the 
10-year CHD/CVD risk and VO2Peak/max of these individuals may be improved. Given 
the elevated CVD risk associated with antipsychotic medications, future 
researchers should examine modifying CVD risk factors to mitigate the additional 
risks associated with medication use in this population.

Copyright © 2023 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/JCN.0000000000001045
PMID: 37747326

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no funding or conflicts of 
interest to disclose.


896. Drugs. 2023 Nov;83(16):1475-1499. doi: 10.1007/s40265-023-01940-2. Epub 2023
Sep  25.

Current Understanding of Complement Proteins as Therapeutic Targets for the 
Treatment of Immunoglobulin A Nephropathy.

Rajasekaran A(1), Green TJ(2), Renfrow MB(3), Julian BA(1), Novak J(2), Rizk 
DV(4).

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, Department of Medicine, Heersink School of Medicine, 
University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL, USA.
(2)Department of Microbiology, Heersink School of Medicine, University of 
Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL, USA.
(3)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Genetics, Heersink School of 
Medicine, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL, USA.
(4)Division of Nephrology, Department of Medicine, Heersink School of Medicine, 
University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL, USA. drizk@uabmc.edu.

Immunoglobulin A nephropathy (IgAN) is the most common primary 
glomerulonephritis worldwide and a frequent cause of kidney failure. Currently, 
the diagnosis necessitates a kidney biopsy, with routine immunofluorescence 
microscopy revealing IgA as the dominant or co-dominant immunoglobulin in the 
glomerular immuno-deposits, often with IgG and sometimes IgM or both. Complement 
protein C3 is observed in most cases. IgAN leads to kidney failure in 20-40% of 
patients within 20 years of diagnosis and reduces average life expectancy by 
about 10 years. There is increasing clinical, biochemical, and genetic evidence 
that the complement system plays a paramount role in the pathogenesis of IgAN. 
The presence of C3 in the kidney immuno-deposits differentiates the diagnosis of 
IgAN from subclinical glomerular mesangial IgA deposition. Markers of complement 
activation via the lectin and alternative pathways in kidney-biopsy specimens 
are associated with disease activity and are predictive of poor outcome. Levels 
of select complement proteins in the circulation have also been assessed in 
patients with IgAN and found to be of prognostic value. Ongoing genetic studies 
have identified at least 30 loci associated with IgAN. Genes within some of 
these loci encode complement-system regulating proteins that can interact with 
immune complexes. The growing appreciation for the central role of complement 
components in IgAN pathogenesis highlighted these pathways as potential 
treatment targets and sparked great interest in pharmacological agents targeting 
the complement cascade for the treatment of IgAN, as evidenced by the plethora 
of ongoing clinical trials.

© 2023. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland 
AG.

DOI: 10.1007/s40265-023-01940-2
PMID: 37747686 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


897. Natl Vital Stat Rep. 2023 Sep;72(10):1-92.

Deaths: Final Data for 2020.

Kochanek KD, Murphy SL, Xu J, Arias E.

Objective-This report presents final 2020 data on U.S. deaths, death rates, life 
expectancy, infant and maternal mortality, and trends by selected 
characteristics such as age, sex, Hispanic origin and race, state of residence, 
and cause of death. Methods-Information reported on death certificates is 
presented in descriptive tabulations. The original records are filed in state 
registration offices. Statistical information is compiled in a national database 
through the Vital Statistics Cooperative Program of the National Center for 
Health Statistics. Causes of death are processed according to the International 
Classification of Diseases, 10th Revision. Beginning in 2018, all states and the 
District of Columbia were using the 2003 revised certificate of death for the 
entire year, which includes the 1997 Office of Management and Budget revised 
standards for race. Data based on these revised standards are not completely 
comparable to previous years. Results-In 2020, a total of 3,383,729 deaths were 
reported in the United States. The age-adjusted death rate was 835.4 deaths per 
100,000 U.S. standard population, an increase of 16.8% from the 2019 rate. Life 
expectancy at birth was 77.0 years, a decrease of 1.8 years from 2019. 
Age-specific death rates increased from 2019 to 2020 for age groups 15 years and 
over and decreased for age group under 1 year. Many of the 15 leading causes of 
death in 2020 changed from 2019. COVID-19, a new cause of death in 2020, became 
the third leading cause in 2020. The infant mortality rate decreased 2.9% to a 
historic low of 5.42 infant deaths per 1,000 live births in 2020. Conclusions-In 
2020, the age-adjusted death rate increased and life expectancy at birth 
decreased for the total, male, and female populations, primarily due to the 
influence of deaths from COVID-19.

All material appearing in this report is in the public domain and may be 
reproduced or copied without permission; citation as to source, however, is 
appreciated.

PMID: 37748091 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


898. Aktuelle Urol. 2023 Sep 25. doi: 10.1055/a-2155-1944. Online ahead of print.

[Geriatric assessment - What should be done and considered before starting 
therapy of mHSPC and mCRPC?].

[Article in German; Abstract available in German from the publisher]

Heers H(1), Butea-Bocu MC(1)(2), Groeben C(1), Huber J(1), Wullich B(3)(4), 
Goebell PJ(3)(4), Fiebig C(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Urologie, Philipps-Universität Marburg, Marburg, Germany.
(2)Urologisches Kompetenzzentrum für die Rehabilitation, Kliniken Hartenstein, 
Bad Wildungen, Germany.
(3)Urologische und kinderurologische Klinik, Universitätsklinikum Erlangen, 
Erlangen, Germany.
(4)Comprehensive Cancer Center Erlangen-EMN (CCC ER-EMN), Erlangen, Germany.

The systemic treatment of prostate cancer nowadays is predominantly carried out 
with combination therapies. A range of aspects should be respected in older and 
comorbid patients, in order to avoid toxicities and to achieve a successful 
therapy alongside good quality of life. The definition of geriatric patients is 
not primarily based on chronological age but rather on the overall health 
condition and life expectancy. Comorbid patients > 70 years should undergo a 
three-step geriatric screening before treatment initiation. If the G8 screening 
and/or mini-COG shows abnormalities (taking into account nutrition, 
comorbidity/medication, mobility, and cognition), a simplified geriatric 
assessment is recommended. Patients can then be stratified into three groups 
(fit, vulnerable, frail). Only a few cases warrant a complete geriatric 
assessment. Treatable deficits in the above mentioned domains should be improved 
if possible. When choosing a systemic therapy, fit patients can be treated the 
same as non-geriatric patients. Vulnerable and frail patients are under a higher 
risk for toxicities, so special care should be taken. While the diverse 
substances of hormonal therapy are usually well tolerated (even though some 
substance-specific toxicities can occur), haematotoxic substances such as 
taxanes or olaparib can only be recommended in select cases. As falls - 
especially under hormonal therapy - are a common problem, osteoprotective 
therapy should especially be considered. Upon progression of the tumour disease, 
there should not be a reflex to simply switch to the next line of treatment, but 
an individual concept should be established together with the patient and his 
relatives, taking into account aspects of palliative care and patient needs and 
focussing on quality of life and also setting therapy limitations.

Publisher: Bei der medikamentösen Therapie des Prostatakarzinoms stehen 
zunehmend Kombinationstherapien im Vordergrund. Für ältere und vorerkrankte 
Patienten sollten einige Aspekte bei der Therapieauswahl und -durchführung 
beachtet werden, um Toxizitäten zu vermeiden und sowohl Behandlungserfolg als 
auch Lebensqualität zu gewährleisten. Zur Definition von geriatrischen Patienten 
sind nicht in erster Linie das chronologische Alter, sondern vor allem der 
ganzheitliche Gesundheitszustand und die Lebenserwartung entscheidend. 
Vorerkrankte Patienten > 70 Jahre sollten vor Therapieeinleitung ein 
dreischrittiges geriatrisches Screening durchlaufen. Bei Auffälligkeiten im 
G8-Screening-Fragebogen und/oder mini-COG (berücksichtigt werden die Aspekte 
Nutrition, Komorbidität/-medikation, Mobilität und Kognition) wird ein 
vereinfachtes geriatrisches Assessment empfohlen. Es erfolgt eine 
Risikostratifizierung der Patienten in 3 Gruppen (fit, vulnerabel, gebrechlich). 
Nur in Einzelfällen ist ein komplettes geriatrisches Assessment erforderlich. 
Behandelbare Defizite in den genannten Bereichen sollten nach Möglichkeit 
verbessert werden. Bei der Auswahl der Systemtherapie können fitte Patienten 
analog zu nicht-geriatrischen Patienten behandelt werden. Vulnerable und 
gebrechliche Patienten haben in der Regel ein höheres Risiko für Toxizitäten, 
sodass hier besondere Vorsicht geboten ist. Während die verschiedenen Substanzen 
der Hormontherapie in der Regel gut vertragen werden (wobei einige 
wirkstoffspezifische Toxizitäten häufiger auftreten können), bestehen bei 
hämatotoxischen Substanzen wie Taxanen oder Olaparib Empfehlungen zum 
eingeschränkten Einsatz. Da Sturzereignisse – insbesondere unter Hormontherapie 
– ein häufiges Problem darstellen, sollte die Osteoprotektion besonders 
berücksichtigt werden. Bei Fortschreiten der Tumorerkrankung sollte nicht 
reflexhaft eine Umstellung der Systemtherapie erfolgen, sondern zusammen mit dem 
Patienten und seinen Angehörigen ein individuelles Konzept unter 
Berücksichtigung von palliativmedizinischen und Versorgungsaspekten erstellt 
werden, das die Lebensqualität in den Mittelpunkt stellt und auch 
Therapielimitationen festlegt.

Thieme. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1055/a-2155-1944
PMID: 37748510

Conflict of interest statement: Die Autorinnen/Autoren geben an, dass kein 
Interessenkonflikt besteht.


899. J Neurosci. 2023 Nov 22;43(47):8058-8072. doi:
10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0562-23.2023.

ALS-Associated KIF5A Mutation Causes Locomotor Deficits Associated with 
Cytoplasmic Inclusions, Alterations of Neuromuscular Junctions, and Motor Neuron 
Loss.

Soustelle L(1), Aimond F(2), López-Andrés C(2), Brugioti V(2), Raoul C(2), 
Layalle S(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Neurosciences Montpellier, Université Montpellier, Institut 
National de la Santé et de la Recherche Médicale, Montpellier, 34091, France 
laurent.soustelle@inserm.fr sophie.layalle@inserm.fr.
(2)Institute for Neurosciences Montpellier, Université Montpellier, Institut 
National de la Santé et de la Recherche Médicale, Montpellier, 34091, France.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal neurodegenerative disease 
affecting motor neurons. Recently, genome-wide association studies identified 
KIF5A as a new ALS-causing gene. KIF5A encodes a protein of the kinesin-1 
family, allowing the anterograde transport of cargos along the microtubule rails 
in neurons. In ALS patients, mutations in the KIF5A gene induce exon 27 
skipping, resulting in a mutated protein with a new C-terminal region (KIF5A 
Δ27). To understand how KIF5A Δ27 underpins the disease, we developed an 
ALS-associated KIF5A Drosophila model. When selectively expressed in motor 
neurons, KIF5A Δ27 alters larval locomotion as well as morphology and synaptic 
transmission at neuromuscular junctions in both males and females. We show that 
the distribution of mitochondria and synaptic vesicles is profoundly disturbed 
by KIF5A Δ27 expression. That is consistent with the numerous KIF5A 
Δ27-containing inclusions observed in motor neuron soma and axons. Moreover, 
KIF5A Δ27 expression leads to motor neuron death and reduces life expectancy. 
Our in vivo model reveals that a toxic gain of function underlies the 
pathogenicity of ALS-linked KIF5A mutant.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT Understanding 
how a mutation identified in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) 
causes the disease and the loss of motor neurons is crucial to fight against 
this disease. To this end, we have created a Drosophila model based on the motor 
neuron expression of the KIF5A mutant gene, recently identified in ALS patients. 
KIF5A encodes a kinesin that allows the anterograde transport of cargos. This 
model recapitulates the main features of ALS, including alterations of 
locomotion, synaptic neurotransmission, and morphology at neuromuscular 
junctions, as well as motor neuron death. KIF5A mutant is found in cytoplasmic 
inclusions, and its pathogenicity is because of a toxic gain of function.

Copyright © 2023 the authors.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0562-23.2023
PMCID: PMC10669773
PMID: 37748861 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


900. Vasc Specialist Int. 2023 Sep 25;39:28. doi: 10.5758/vsi.230060.

Carotid Endarterectomy in the Very Elderly: Short-, Medium-, and Long-Term 
Outcomes.

Fahad S(1), Shirsath S(1), Metcalfe M(1), Elmallah A(2).

Author information:
(1)Herts and West Essex Vascular Network, The Lister Hospital, Hertfordshire, 
United Kingdom.
(2)Department of Vascular Surgery, Faculty of Medicine, Menofia University, 
Menofia Governorate, Egypt.

PURPOSE: : Carotid endarterectomy (CEA) has an established effect on stroke-free 
survival in patients with carotid artery stenosis. Most landmark trials excluded 
patients ≥80 years of age due to their perceived high risk and uncertainty 
regarding the benefits of CEA. Despite the ongoing global increase in life 
expectancy, guidelines have not changed. The current study aimed to assess CEA 
outcomes in patients ≥80 years of age.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: : Data from patients ≥80 years of age, who underwent CEA 
between April 2016 and April 2022, were collected. Demographic information, 
comorbidities, surgical details, operative details, outcomes, and post-CEA 
survival were reviewed, and long-term data up to April 2023 were collected.
RESULTS: : Over the 6-year study period, 258 CEA procedures were recorded, of 
which 70 (27.1%) were performed in patients ≥80 years of age; the mean age was 
84 years (range, 80-96 years), 47 (67.1%) were males, and 69 (98.6%) were 
symptomatic. Twenty-three (32.9%) patients were American Society of 
Anesthesiologists (ASA) grade 2, and 47 (67.1%) were grade 3. The 30-day stroke 
and mortality rates were 4.3% and 1.4%, respectively. At 1, 3, and 5 years, the 
cumulative freedom-from-stroke rates were 95.7%, 92.9%, and 91.4%, respectively, 
and the cumulative survival rates were 94.3%, 75.7%, and 61.4%, respectively. No 
risk factors affected early or late stroke or early mortality rates. Patients 
with ASA grade 3 had significantly lower cumulative survival than those with 
grade 2 (HR, 5.29; 95% CI, 1.590-17.603; P<0.01).
CONCLUSION: : CEA was safe and effective in average-risk, elderly patients. 
Higher risk patients (i.e., ASA 3) showed no increased 30-day risk for stroke or 
mortality but exhibited significantly worse long-term survival. Hence, careful 
consideration of the benefits before performing CEA is crucial.

DOI: 10.5758/vsi.230060
PMCID: PMC10519940
PMID: 37748930

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The authors have nothing 
to disclose.901. Trials. 2023 Sep 25;24(1):608. doi: 10.1186/s13063-023-07522-7.

Endoscopic ultrasonography-guided gastroenterostomy versus surgical 
gastrojejunostomy for palliation of malignant gastric outlet obstruction 
(ENDURO): study protocol for a randomized controlled trial.

Kastelijn JB(#)(1), van de Pavert YL(#)(2), Besselink MG(3)(4), Fockens P(4)(5), 
Voermans RP(4)(5), van Wanrooij RLJ(4)(6), de Wijkerslooth TR(7), Curvers WL(8), 
de Hingh IHJT(9), Bruno MJ(10), Koerkamp BG(11), Patijn GA(12), Poen AC(13), van 
Hooft JE(14), Inderson A(14), Mieog JSD(15), Poley JW(16), Bijlsma A(17), Lips 
DJ(18), Venneman NG(19), Verdonk RC(20), van Dullemen HM(21), Hoogwater FJH(22), 
Frederix GWJ(23), Molenaar IQ(24)(25), Welsing PMJ(26), Moons LMG(1), van 
Santvoort HC(24)(25), Vleggaar FP(1); Dutch Pancreatic Cancer Group.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University Medical Center 
Utrecht, Utrecht, the Netherlands.
(2)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University Medical Center 
Utrecht, Utrecht, the Netherlands. y.l.vandepavert@umcutrecht.nl.
(3)Department of Surgery, Amsterdam UMC, Location University of Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(4)Cancer Center Amsterdam, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(5)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Amsterdam UMC, Location 
University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(6)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Amsterdam UMC, Location Vrije 
Universiteit, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(7)Department of Gastrointestinal Oncology, Netherlands Cancer Institute, 
Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(8)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Catharina Hospital, Eindhoven, 
the Netherlands.
(9)Department of Surgery, Catharina Hospital, Eindhoven, the Netherlands.
(10)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Erasmus University Medical 
Center, Rotterdam, the Netherlands.
(11)Department of Surgery, Erasmus University Medical Center Cancer Institute, 
Rotterdam, the Netherlands.
(12)Department of Surgery, Isala Clinics, Zwolle, the Netherlands.
(13)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Isala Clinics, Zwolle, the 
Netherlands.
(14)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Leiden University Medical 
Center, Leiden, the Netherlands.
(15)Department of Surgery, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, the 
Netherlands.
(16)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Maastricht University Medical 
Center+, Maastricht, the Netherlands.
(17)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Martini Hospital, Groningen, 
the Netherlands.
(18)Department of Surgery, Medisch Spectrum Twente, Enschede, the Netherlands.
(19)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Medisch Spectrum Twente, 
Enschede, the Netherlands.
(20)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, St. Antonius Hospital, 
Nieuwegein, the Netherlands.
(21)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University Medical Center 
Groningen, University of Groningen, Groningen, the Netherlands.
(22)Department of Surgery, University Medical Center Groningen, University of 
Groningen, Groningen, the Netherlands.
(23)Julius Center for Health Sciences and Primary Care, University Medical 
Center Utrecht, Utrecht, the Netherlands.
(24)Department of Surgery, St. Antonius Hospital, Nieuwegein, the Netherlands.
(25)Department of Surgery, University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, the 
Netherlands.
(26)Division of Internal Medicine and Dermatology, University Medical Center 
Utrecht, Utrecht, the Netherlands.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Malignant gastric outlet obstruction (GOO) is a debilitating 
condition that frequently occurs in patients with malignancies of the distal 
stomach and (peri)ampullary region. The standard palliative treatment for 
patients with a reasonable life expectancy and adequate performance status is a 
laparoscopic surgical gastrojejunostomy (SGJ). Recently, endoscopic 
ultrasound-guided gastroenterostomy (EUS-GE) emerged as a promising alternative 
to the surgical approach. The present study aims to compare these treatment 
modalities in terms of efficacy, safety, and costs.
METHODS: The ENDURO-study is a multicentre, open-label, parallel-group 
randomized controlled trial. In total, ninety-six patients with gastric outlet 
obstruction caused by an irresectable or metastasized malignancy will be 1:1 
randomized to either SGJ or EUS-GE. The primary endpoint is time to tolerate at 
least soft solids. The co-primary endpoint is the proportion of patients with 
persisting or recurring symptoms of gastric outlet obstruction for which a 
reintervention is required. Secondary endpoints are technical and clinical 
success, quality of life, gastroenterostomy dysfunction, reinterventions, time 
to reintervention, adverse events, quality of life, time to start chemotherapy, 
length of hospital stay, readmissions, weight, survival, and costs.
DISCUSSION: The ENDURO-study assesses whether EUS-GE, as compared to SGJ, 
results in a faster resumption of solid oral intake and is non-inferior 
regarding reinterventions for persistent or recurrent obstructive symptoms in 
patients with malignant GOO. This trial aims to guide future treatment 
strategies and to improve quality of life in a palliative setting.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (ICTRP): 
NL9592. Registered on 07 July 2021.

© 2023. BioMed Central Ltd., part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1186/s13063-023-07522-7
PMCID: PMC10518948
PMID: 37749590 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: JK and YvdP, MGB, TdW, WC, IdH, BGK, GP, AP, AI, 
SM, AB, DL, NV, RCV, HvD, FH, GF, QM, PW, and HvS report no conflicts of 
interest. PF is consultant for Cook Endoscopy and Olympus. RPV reports research 
grants from Boston Scientific and Prion Medical, performed as a consultant for 
Boston Scientific, and received speaker’s fees from Mylan and Zambon. RvW is a 
consultant for Boston Scientific. MJB is a consultant for Boston Scientific, 
Cook Medical, and Pentax Medical; received support for industry-initiated 
studies from Boston Scientific and Cook Medical; and received support for 
investigator-initiated studies from Boston Scientific, Cook Medical, Pentax 
Medical, Mylan, Interscope, and ChiRhoStim. JvH received lecture fees from Cook 
Medical, Boston Scientific, Medtronic, and Abbvie, is an independent observer 
for Olympus, and is the current secretary general of the federation United 
European Gastroenterology (UEG). JWP received consultancy & speaker’s fees from 
Cook Medical, Pentax Medical, and Boston Scientific. LM is a consultant for 
Boston Scientific. FV is a consultant for Boston Scientific and the current 
chair of the Dutch Society for Gastroenterologists (NVMDL).


902. J Pediatr Hematol Oncol. 2023 Nov 1;45(8):e1018-e1022. doi: 
10.1097/MPH.0000000000002756. Epub 2023 Sep 26.

Wilms Tumor in Child With Trisomy 18 and Horseshoe Kidney.

Chen E(1), Hackney L(2), VanHeyst K(2), Miyasaka EA(3).

Author information:
(1)Case Western Reserve University School of Medicine.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, Division of Pediatric Hematology Oncology.
(3)Division of Pediatric Surgery, Rainbow Babies and Children's Hospital at 
University Hospitals Cleveland Medical Center, Cleveland, OH.

Trisomy 18 is associated with several congenital malformations, including 
horseshoe kidney. It can be full, partial, or mosaic, and mosaicism is often 
associated with lesser severity and longer life expectancy, placing patients at 
greater risk of developing neoplasms or malignancies. One common tumor among 
children with Trisomy 18 is Wilms tumor, which is also associated with renal 
congenital abnormalities such as horseshoe kidney. We present a case describing 
the occurrence of these three characteristics: development of Wilms tumor in a 
patient with Trisomy 18 and a horseshoe kidney and discuss treatment with 
regards to these conditions.

Copyright © 2023 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/MPH.0000000000002756
PMID: 37749779 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


903. J Dtsch Dermatol Ges. 2023 Oct;21(10):1148-1155. doi: 10.1111/ddg.15160.
Epub  2023 Sep 26.

End-of-life wishes and care planning for patients with advanced skin cancer.

Volberg C(1)(2), Schrade S(1)(3), Heers H(4), Carrasco AJP(2), Morin A(1), 
Gschnell M(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesia and Intensive Care, University Hospital of Marburg, 
Philipps University Marburg, Marburg, Germany.
(2)Research Group Medical Ethics, Philipps University Marburg, Marburg, Germany.
(3)Department of Dermatology and Allergology, Skin Tumor Center, University 
Hospital of Marburg, Philipps University Marburg, Marburg, Germany.
(4)Department of Urology, University Hospital of Marburg, Philipps University 
Marburg, Marburg, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Patients with advanced or metastatic skin cancer have a limited life 
expectancy and the majority die as a result of the tumor despite modern 
treatment options. The preferences of these patients concerning care during 
their last phase of life are currently unknown.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: 150 patients with advanced skin cancer (AJCC/UICC 
stage III or IV) were interviewed using a structured questionnaire.
RESULTS: 75% of the respondents wished to die in their domestic environment, 
although a more advanced tumor stage and increased reflection upon end-of-life 
care lead away from this wish. However, only 42% reported having communicated 
this wish to someone else. 55% of the respondents had completed advance 
directives, while younger patients did this significantly less often (95% CI: 
0.11-0.56; p  =  0.001). The majority of patients (62%) would like to have 
discussions about possibilities for end-of-life care with the attending 
dermato-oncologist.
CONCLUSIONS: Although the moment of death is unpredictable, early initiation of 
end-of-life advance care planning appears prudent. The attending 
dermato-oncologists should take the initiative to raise the subject with their 
patients during routine control visits. In this context, it may be useful to 
present available care options to patients and relatives and to design 
strategies for the event of deteriorating health.

© 2023 The Authors. Journal der Deutschen Dermatologischen Gesellschaft 
published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Deutsche Dermatologische 
Gesellschaft.

DOI: 10.1111/ddg.15160
PMID: 37750575


904. mSphere. 2023 Oct 24;8(5):e0032423. doi: 10.1128/msphere.00324-23. Epub 2023
Sep  26.

Antifungal mechanism of volatile compounds emitted by Actinomycetota 
Paenarthrobacter ureafaciens from a disease-suppressive soil on Saccharomyces 
cerevisiae.

Nguyen T-P(1), Meng D-R(1), Chang C-H(2), Su P-Y(1), Ou C-A(1), Hou P-F(3), Sung 
H-M(1), Chou C-H(1), Ohme-Takagi M(4), Huang H-J(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, National Cheng Kung University , Tainan, Taiwan.
(2)Graduate Program in Translational Agricultural Sciences, National Cheng Kung 
University and Academia Sinica , Tainan, Taiwan.
(3)Kaohsiung District Agricultural Research and Extension Station , Pingtung, 
Taiwan.
(4)Institute of Tropical Plant Sciences and Microbiology, National Cheng Kung 
University , Tainan, Taiwan.

Increasing evidence suggests that in disease-suppressive soils, microbial 
volatile compounds (mVCs) released from bacteria may inhibit the growth of 
plant-pathogenic fungi. However, the antifungal activities and molecular 
responses of fungi to different mVCs remain largely undescribed. In this study, 
we first evaluated the responses of pathogenic fungi to treatment with mVCs from 
Paenarthrobacter ureafaciens. Then, we utilized the well-characterized fungal 
model organism Saccharomyces cerevisiae to study the potential mechanistic 
effects of the mVCs. Our data showed that exposure to P. ureafaciens mVCs leads 
to reduced growth of several pathogenic fungi, and in yeast cells, mVC exposure 
prompts the accumulation of reactive oxygen species. Further experiments with S. 
cerevisiae deletion mutants indicated that Slt2/Mpk1 and Hog1 MAPKs play major 
roles in the yeast response to P. ureafaciens mVCs. Transcriptomic analysis 
revealed that exposure to mVCs was associated with 1,030 differentially 
expressed genes (DEGs) in yeast. According to gene ontology and Kyoto 
Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes analyses, many of these DEGs are involved in 
mitochondrial dysfunction, cell integrity, mitophagy, cellular metabolism, and 
iron uptake. Genes encoding antimicrobial proteins were also significantly 
altered in the yeast after exposure to mVCs. These findings suggest that 
oxidative damage and mitochondrial dysfunction are major contributors to the 
fungal toxicity of mVCs. Furthermore, our data showed that cell wall, 
antioxidant, and antimicrobial defenses are induced in yeast exposed to mVCs. 
Thus, our findings expand upon previous research by delineating the 
transcriptional responses of the fungal model. IMPORTANCE Since the use of 
bacteria-emitted volatile compounds in phytopathogen control is of considerable 
interest, it is important to understand the molecular mechanisms by which fungi 
may adapt to microbial volatile compounds (mVCs). Paenarthrobacter ureafaciens 
is an isolated bacterium from disease-suppressive soil that belongs to the 
Actinomycetota phylum. P. ureafaciens mVCs showed a potent antifungal effect on 
phytopathogens, which may contribute to disease suppression in soil. However, 
our knowledge about the antifungal mechanism of mVCs is limited. This study has 
proven that mVCs are toxic to fungi due to oxidative stress and mitochondrial 
dysfunction. To deal with mVC toxicity, antioxidants and physical defenses are 
required. Furthermore, iron uptake and CAP proteins are required for 
antimicrobial defense, which is necessary for fungi to deal with the thread from 
mVCs. This study provides essential foundational knowledge regarding the 
molecular responses of fungi to inhibitory mVCs.

DOI: 10.1128/msphere.00324-23
PMCID: PMC10597458
PMID: 37750721 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


905. Childs Nerv Syst. 2023 Sep 26. doi: 10.1007/s00381-023-06161-2. Online ahead
of  print.

Endoluminal flow diversion as a primary treatment strategy for pediatric 
traumatic intracranial aneurysms: a case-based review of literature.

Hosseini EM(1), Zafarshamspour S(2), Ghasemi-Rad M(3), Benndorf G(4)(5), Rasekhi 
A(6), Rafieossadat R(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, 
Iran.
(2)Department of Surgery, Rafsanjan University of Medical Sciences, Rafsanjan, 
Kerman, Iran.
(3)Department of Interventional Radiology, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, 
TX, USA.
(4)Department of Radiology, University Hospital Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen, 
Denmark.
(5)Department of Radiology, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX, USA.
(6)Department of Radiology, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
(7)Department of Neurosurgery, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, 
Iran. rrafieossadat@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Traumatic intracranial aneurysms (TICAs) constitute a notable 
portion of pediatric intracranial aneurysms. Their unstable structure dictates a 
high incidence of rupture or mass effect from enlarging unruptured aneurysms, 
necessitating prompt diagnosis and treatment. TICAs often lack a true neck or 
are wide-necked, making them unsuitable for coil embolization and surgical 
clipping, and their fragile nature poses a risk of rupture during surgical and 
intrasaccular interventions. Endoluminal flow diverters (FD), deployed without 
requiring direct access to the aneurysmal sac, have emerged as an appealing sole 
treatment modality for TICAs. However, the clinical experience with this 
technique remains limited in the pediatric population.
METHOD: We describe the successful treatment of a paraclinoid TICA in a 
4-year-old female using an endoluminal FD alone. Additionally, we conducted a 
literature review to assess the safety and effectiveness of this treatment 
modality in pediatric TICAs.
RESULTS: Endoluminal flow diversion led to complete aneurysm obliteration in our 
case, with no observed complication, at the 9-month follow-up. Our review of the 
previously reported pediatric TICAs managed by standalone flow diversion 
highlights this technique as safe, efficient, and promising as a sole treatment 
modality, particularly in the anterior circulation, with a high rate of 
persistent total obliteration and a low rate of complications. However, the 
requirement for long-term antiplatelet therapy with the possibility of frequent 
dose monitoring and adjustments warrants special attention when using 
endoluminal FDs. Until guidelines specifically addressing optimal antiplatelet 
therapy in children with intracranial FDs are formulated, adherence to existing 
protocols is imperative to avoid in-stent thrombosis.
CONCLUSION: Our literature review and personal experience indicate that 
endoluminal flow diversion can be a viable treatment approach for pediatric 
TICAs. However, prospective studies with extensive follow-ups are required to 
assess the durability of endoluminal FDs in treating pediatric TICAs, 
considering the long life expectancy of this demographic.

© 2023. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00381-023-06161-2
PMID: 37750891


906. Dermatol Ther (Heidelb). 2023 Nov;13(11):2697-2719. doi: 
10.1007/s13555-023-01016-9. Epub 2023 Sep 26.

Dupilumab Safety and Efficacy in a Phase III Open-Label Extension Trial in 
Children 6-11 Years of Age with Severe Atopic Dermatitis.

Cork MJ(1)(2), Thaçi D(3), Eichenfield LF(4)(5), Arkwright PD(6), Chen Z(7), 
Thomas RB(7), Kosloski MP(7), Dubost-Brama A(8), Prescilla R(9), Bansal A(7), 
Levit NA(10).

Author information:
(1)Sheffield Dermatology Research, University of Sheffield, Sheffield, UK.
(2)Sheffield Children's Hospital Clinical Research Facility, Sheffield, UK.
(3)Institute and Comprehensive Center for Inflammation Medicine, University of 
Lübeck, Lübeck, Germany.
(4)Departments of Dermatology and Pediatrics, University of California, San 
Diego, CA, USA.
(5)Division of Pediatric and Adolescent Dermatology, Rady Children's Hospital, 
San Diego, CA, USA.
(6)Lydia Becker Institute of Immunology and Inflammation, University of 
Manchester, Manchester, UK.
(7)Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc., Tarrytown, NY, USA.
(8)Sanofi, Chilly-Mazarin, France.
(9)Sanofi, Cambridge, MA, USA.
(10)Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc., Tarrytown, NY, USA. noah.a.levit@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: For children aged 6-11 years with uncontrolled severe atopic 
dermatitis (AD), 16 weeks of treatment with dupilumab resulted in substantial 
clinical benefit compared with placebo with an acceptable safety profile. 
However, longer-term safety and efficacy data are important to inform 
longitudinal AD management.
OBJECTIVES: This analysis of data from an open-label extension study (LIBERTY AD 
PED-OLE, NCT02612454) reports the long-term safety, efficacy, and 
pharmacokinetics of dupilumab in children with severe AD who had participated in 
the pivotal dupilumab LIBERTY AD PEDS study (NCT03345914).
METHODS: Enrolled patients initially received subcutaneous dupilumab 300 mg 
every 4 weeks (q4w). The q4w regimen could be uptitrated to dupilumab dose 
regimens of 200 or 300 mg every 2 weeks (q2w; for body weight < 60 or ≥ 60 kg, 
respectively) for patients who did not achieve an Investigator's Global 
Assessment (IGA) score of 0/1 (clear/almost clear skin) at week 16, or prior to 
week 16 as rescue treatment. Additional patients were uptitrated to a 
weight-tiered q2w regimen following a protocol amendment. Patients who 
maintained an IGA score of 0/1 continuously for a 12-week period after week 40 
discontinued dupilumab. They were monitored for relapse and were reinitiated on 
dupilumab if required.
RESULTS: Data for 321 patients (mean age 8.6 years) were analyzed, 254 (79%) of 
whom had completed the scheduled 52-week visit at the database lock. Most 
treatment-emergent adverse events were mild/moderate. By week 52, 41% of 
patients achieved an IGA score of 0/1, and 97%, 82%, and 50%, respectively, had 
at least a 50%, 75%, and 90% improvement from the parent study baseline in 
Eczema Area and Severity Index (EASI). By week 52, 29% of patients in the 
overall population had clear/almost clear skin sustained for 12 weeks and had 
stopped medication; of these, 40% relapsed and were subsequently reinitiated on 
treatment, with a mean time to reinitiation of 13.5 (standard deviation 5.2) 
weeks. Following reinitiation of dupilumab, 41% of the patients with evaluable 
data at the time of database lock had regained an IGA 0/1 clinical response.
CONCLUSIONS: Consistent with results seen in adults and adolescents, long-term 
treatment with dupilumab in children aged 6-11 years with severe AD showed an 
acceptable safety profile and incremental clinical benefit. A substantial 
proportion of children who stopped dupilumab treatment after achieving 
clear/almost clear skin subsequently experienced disease recurrence, and 
required reinitiation of dupilumab, suggesting that continuous treatment may be 
necessary for maintenance of clinical benefit.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier NCT02612454.

Plain Language Summary: Atopic dermatitis (AD) is a chronic disease that causes 
recurrent inflamed and rough skin rashes with itching and often soreness. In 
children with AD, treatment with a medication called dupilumab has shown 
improvements in their disease and quality of life. But most clinical trials of 
dupilumab in children have only lasted for 16 weeks. We investigated the effect 
of dupilumab in children treated for a longer time. The 321 children (aged 
6–11 years) who were included in this study had taken part in a clinical trial 
of dupilumab because they had severe AD. They were treated with either dupilumab 
or a placebo (a dummy treatment) for 16 weeks. When that trial ended, they were 
then all treated with dupilumab for up to a year. Their average AD severity 
continued to get steadily better over a year of extended treatment, with almost 
all children reaching 50% skin improvement compared with their AD before 
treatment. Many children reached a point where their skin was clear or almost 
clear of AD for a period, and following the rules of the study they stopped 
taking dupilumab. In many of them, their AD slowly returned without treatment. 
But if they started to take dupilumab again, their AD improved, and some could 
even achieve skin clearance again. Over the longer term, the safety of dupilumab 
was similar to what was seen with short-term treatment. This study showed that 
children with AD aged 6–11 years benefited from receiving dupilumab for a longer 
period of time.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s13555-023-01016-9
PMCID: PMC10613196
PMID: 37750994

Conflict of interest statement: Michael J. Cork has been a consultant and/or 
investigator for Astellas Pharma, Boots, Dermavant, Galapagos, Galderma, Hyphens 
Pharma, Johnson & Johnson, LEO Pharma, L’Oréal, Menlo Therapeutics, Novartis, 
Oxagen, Pfizer, Procter & Gamble, Reckitt Benckiser, Regeneron Pharmaceuticals 
Inc., and Sanofi. Diamant Thaçi has been a consultant/advisory board member 
and/or investigator for AbbVie, Almirall, Amgen, Beiersdorf, BMS, Boehringer 
Ingelheim, Celltrion, Eli Lilly, Galderma, Janssen-Cilag, Kyowa-Kirin, LEO 
Pharma, Novartis, Pfizer, Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc., Roche-Posay, Samsung, 
Sanofi, Sun Pharma, and UCB. Lawrence F. Eichenfield has received honoraria for 
consulting services from AbbVie, Aslan, BMS, Dermavant, Eli Lilly, Forté, 
Galderma, Incyte, Janssen, Otsuka, Novartis, Pfizer, Regeneron Pharmaceuticals 
Inc., and Sanofi and has received study support (to institution) from AbbVie, 
Arcutis, Bausch, Castle Biosciences, Dermavant, Galderma, Incyte, Pfizer, 
Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc., and Sanofi. Peter D. Arkwright has been an 
investigator for Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc. and has received a research 
grant from and been an advisor for Sanofi. Zhen Chen, Ryan B. Thomas, Matthew P. 
Kosloski, and Ashish Bansal are employees and shareholders of Regeneron 
Pharmaceuticals Inc. Ariane Dubost-Brama and Randy Prescilla are employees of 
Sanofi, and may hold stock and/or stock options in the company. Noah A. Levit is 
a former employee and shareholder of Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc., currently 
an employee of the Dermatology Physicians of Connecticut, Fairfield, CT, USA.


907. CBE Life Sci Educ. 2023 Dec;22(4):ar34. doi: 10.1187/cbe.22-11-0241.

"I don't Know what I Would do Without it" How Life Science Graduate Students 
Describe Resource Value.

Weatherton M(1), Von der Mehden BM(1), Schussler EE(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, The University of Tennessee, 
Knoxville, TN 37996.

Graduate students often face choices about which resources to use to help them 
succeed in their programs. These choices likely differ among students, in part, 
due to different perceptions of resource value. However, little is known about 
why particular resources might be considered highly valuable to students, thus 
driving choice. Utilizing expectancy-value theory for help sources as our 
theoretical framework, this qualitative study explored life science (LS) 
graduate students' top three resource choices, their explanations about why they 
made those choices, and whether students' perceptions of value differed among 
resources and across demographic groups. We addressed two research questions: 1) 
What resources do LS graduate students consider to be the most important? 2) 
What drives LS graduate students' perceptions of resource value? Many 
participants indicated that 'advisor' and 'academic stipend' were most 
important. Student perceptions of value were driven by their perceptions of 
which needs resources fulfilled, such as basic needs, academic help, or support. 
Participants' top resource choices and underlying values of those resources did 
not differ among demographic groups. We propose a model for understanding 
graduate student resource choice that may inform future work on student 
outcomes.

DOI: 10.1187/cbe.22-11-0241
PMID: 37751509 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


908. BMJ Glob Health. 2023 Sep;8(9):e012277. doi: 10.1136/bmjgh-2023-012277.

Validating the rigour of adaptive methods of economic evaluation.

Chauhan AS(1), Sharma D(1), Mehndiratta A(2), Gupta N(3), Garg B(4), Kumar 
AP(5), Prinja S(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Medicine and School of Public Health, Post Graduate 
Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh, India.
(2)Center for Global Development, Washington, Columbia, USA.
(3)Department of Radiation Oncology, Government Medical College and Hospital, 
Chandigarh, India.
(4)National Health Authority, Ayushman Bharat PM-JAY, Government of India, New 
Delhi, India.
(5)Department of Women and Child Development, Government of Haryana, Panchkula, 
Haryana, India.
(6)Department of Community Medicine and School of Public Health, Post Graduate 
Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh, India 
shankarprinja@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: There has been a lot of debate on how to 'generalise' or 'translate' 
findings of economic evaluation (EE) or health technology assessment (HTA) to 
other country contexts. Researchers have used various adaptive HTA (aHTA) 
methods like model-adaptation, price-benchmarking, scorecard-approach, etc., for 
transferring evidence from one country to other. This study was undertaken to 
assess the degree of accuracy in results generated from aHTA approaches 
specifically for EE.
METHODS: By applying selected aHTA approaches, we adapted findings of globally 
published EE to Indian context. The first-step required identifying two 
interventions for which Indian EE (referred to as the 'Indian reference study') 
has been conducted. The next-step involved identification of globally published 
EE. The third-step required undertaking quality and transferability check. In 
the fourth step, outcomes of EE meeting transferability standards, were adapted 
using selected aHTA approaches. Lastly, adapted results were compared with 
findings of the Indian reference study.
RESULTS: The adapted cost estimates varied considerably, while adapted 
quality-adjusted life-years did not differ much, when matched with the Indian 
reference study. For intervention I (trastuzumab), adapted absolute costs were 
11 and 6 times higher than the costs reported in the Indian reference study for 
control and intervention arms, respectively. Likewise, adapted incremental cost 
and incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) were around 3.5-8 times higher 
than the values reported in the Indian reference study. For intervention II 
(intensity-modulated radiation therapy), adapted absolute cost was 35% and 12% 
lower for the comparator and intervention arms, respectively, than the values 
reported in the Indian reference study. The mean incremental cost and ICER were 
2.5 times and 1.5 times higher, respectively, than the Indian reference study 
values.
CONCLUSION: We conclude that findings from aHTA methods should be interpreted 
with caution. There is a need to develop more robust aHTA approaches for cost 
adjustment. aHTA may be used for 'topic prioritisation' within the overall HTA 
process, whereby interventions which are highly cost-ineffective, can be 
directly ruled out, thus saving time and resources for conducting full HTA for 
interventions that are not well studied or where evidence is inconclusive.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2023. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjgh-2023-012277
PMCID: PMC10533726
PMID: 37751935 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


909. BMJ Open. 2023 Sep 26;13(9):e072455. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2023-072455.

Early Detection and Progression of Subclinical Atherosclerosis in Psoriasis 
(EDSAP): protocol for an observational, single-centre, prospective cohort study.

Abbad-Jaime de Aragón C(1), Berna-Rico E(1), Ballester-Martinez MA(1), Jaén 
P(1), Solís J(2)(3), Barderas MG(4), Fernández-Friera L(3)(5), N Mehta N(6), 
Gelfand JM(7), González-Cantero Á(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Dermatology, Hospital Universitario Ramon y Cajal, Madrid, Spain.
(2)Cardiology, Hospital Universitario 12 de Octubre, Madrid, Spain.
(3)Cardiology, Atria Clinic, Madrid, Spain.
(4)Vascular Physiopathology, Hospital Nacional de Parapléjicos, IDISCAM, Toledo, 
Spain.
(5)Centro Integral de Enfermedades Cardiovasculares HM CIEC, HM Hospitales, 
Madrid, Spain.
(6)Cardiology, George Washington Medical Center, Washington, DC, USA.
(7)Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.
(8)Dermatology, Hospital Universitario Ramon y Cajal, Madrid, Spain 
alvarogonzalezcantero@gmail.com.
(9)Facultad de Medicina, Universidad Francisco de Vitoria, Pozuelo de Alarcon, 
Comunidad de Madrid, Spain.

INTRODUCTION: Life expectancy of patients with psoriasis is reduced by 4-5 years 
due to cardiovascular disease with an increased risk of myocardial infarction at 
an earlier age compared with the general population. This increased risk is 
independent of traditional cardiovascular risk factors and higher in 
moderate-to-severe forms of psoriasis. Inflammation may play a key role in the 
development of atherosclerosis in these patients.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: A prospective cohort study, Early Detection and 
Progression of Subclinical Atherosclerosis in Psoriasis (EDSAP), was initiated 
in January 2020 to investigate the presence and progression of subclinical 
atherosclerosis in patients with psoriasis. 120 patients aged 30-65 years and 
eligible for biological treatment have been recruited at Hospital Ramón y Cajal 
in Madrid, Spain. Patients undergo a baseline visit, and 1-year follow-up visit 
after starting biological therapy. Each visit includes: assessment of 
cardiovascular risk factors, screening for subclinical atherosclerosis by 
two-dimensional/three-dimensional ultrasound of carotid and femoral arteries, 
cardiac CT of coronary arteries and blood sampling. All baseline visits were 
completed by December 2022, and the remaining follow-up visits will be concluded 
by the end of 2023. The EDSAP study aims to identify new molecular and imaging 
markers associated with the presence of atherosclerosis and its progression in a 
chronic inflammatory state such as psoriasis. This has the potential to: (1) 
help improve primary cardiovascular prevention strategies in these patients; (2) 
understand the effect of biological drugs on the cardiovascular system; and (3) 
serve as a model for understanding atherosclerosis in other chronic inflammatory 
diseases.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: The study protocol has been approved by the 
Institutional Review Board of the Hospital Ramón y Cajal in Madrid. We will 
present our findings at national and international congresses, and peer-reviewed 
journals.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NCT05858099.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2023. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2023-072455
PMCID: PMC10533786
PMID: 37751953 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: NNM is a full-time US 
government employee and has served as a consultant for several pharmaceutical 
companies, receiving grants and/or research funding; and as a principal 
investigator for the NIH receiving grants and/or research funding. JMG served as 
a consultant for several pharmaceutical companies, receiving honoraria and 
research grants (to the Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania). JMG is a 
co-patent holder of resiquimod for treatment of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma. JMG 
receives honoraria from multiple organisms, for being a Deputy Editor for the 
Journal of Investigative Dermatology, Chief Medical Editor for Healio Psoriatic 
Disease. He is also a member of the Board of Directors for the International 
Psoriasis Council, receiving no honoraria. AG-C has served as a consultant for 
several pharmaceutical companies receiving grants/other payments. MAB-M has 
served as a consultant for several pharmaceutical companies receiving honoraria. 
LF-F, JS, EB-R, MGB, PJ and CA-JdA have no interests to disclose.


910. J Neurosci. 2023 Nov 22;43(47):8018-8031. doi:
10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0460-23.2023.

Neurocomputational Substrates Underlying the Effect of Identifiability on 
Third-Party Punishment.

Feng C(1)(2)(3)(4), Tian X(5)(2)(3)(4), Luo YJ(6)(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Brain, Cognition and Education Sciences, South China Normal 
University, Ministry of Education, Guangzhou, 510631, China 
chunliang.feng@m.scnu.edu.cn luoyj@bnu.edu.cn.
(2)School of Psychology, South China Normal University, Guangzhou, 510631, 
China.
(3)Center for Studies of Psychological Application, South China Normal 
University, Guangzhou, 510631, China.
(4)Guangdong Key Laboratory of Mental Health and Cognitive Science, South China 
Normal University, Guangzhou, 510631, China.
(5)Key Laboratory of Brain, Cognition and Education Sciences, South China Normal 
University, Ministry of Education, Guangzhou, 510631, China.
(6)The State Key Lab of Cognitive and Learning, Faculty of Psychology, Beijing 
Normal University, Beijing, 100875, China chunliang.feng@m.scnu.edu.cn 
luoyj@bnu.edu.cn.
(7)Institute for Neuropsychological Rehabilitation, University of Health and 
Rehabilitation Sciences, Qingdao, 266113, China.
(8)School of Psychology, Chengdu Medical College, Chengdu, 610500, China.

The identifiable target effect refers to the preference for helping identified 
victims and punishing identifiable perpetrators compared with equivalent but 
unidentifiable counterparts. The identifiable target effect is often attributed 
to the heightened moral emotions evoked by identified targets. However, the 
specific neurocognitive processes that mediate and/or modulate this effect 
remain largely unknown. Here, we combined a third-party punishment game with 
brain imaging and computational modeling to unravel the neurocomputational 
underpinnings of the identifiable transgressor effect. Human participants (males 
and females) acted as bystanders and punished identified or anonymous 
wrongdoers. Participants were more punitive toward identified wrongdoers than 
anonymous wrongdoers because they took a vicarious perspective of victims and 
adopted lower reference points of inequity (i.e., more stringent norms) in the 
identified context than in the unidentified context. Accordingly, there were 
larger activity of the ventral anterior insula, more distinct multivariate 
neural patterns in the dorsal anterior insula and dorsal anterior cingulate 
cortex, and lower strength between ventral anterior insula and dorsolateral PFC 
and between dorsal anterior insula and ventral striatum connectivity in response 
to identified transgressors than anonymous transgressors. These findings 
implicate the interplay of expectancy violations, emotions, and self-interest in 
the identifiability effect. Last, individual differences in the identifiability 
effect were associated with empathic concern/social dominance orientation, 
activity in the precuneus/cuneus and temporo-parietal junction, and intrinsic 
functional connectivity of the dorsolateral PFC. Together, our work is the first 
to uncover the neurocomputational processes mediating identifiable transgressor 
effect and to characterize psychophysiological profiles modulating the 
effect.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT The identifiable target effect, more help to 
identified victims or stronger punishment to identifiable perpetrators, is 
common in daily life. We examined the neurocomputational mechanisms 
mediating/modulating the identifiability effect on third-party punishment by 
bridging literature from economics and cognitive neuroscience. Our findings 
reveal that identifiable transgressor effect is mediated by lower reference 
points of inequity (i.e., more stringent norms), which might be associated with 
a stronger involvement of the emotion processes and a weaker engagement of the 
analytic/deliberate processes. Furthermore, personality traits, altered brain 
activity, and intrinsic functional connectivity contribute to the individual 
variance in the identifiability effect. Overall, our study advances the 
understanding of the identifiability effect by shedding light on its component 
processes and modulating factors.

Copyright © 2023 the authors.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0460-23.2023
