
Conflict of interest statement: Clare Collins is deputy editor of the 
International Journal of Behavioural Nutrition and Physical Activity. There are 
no other conflicts to declare.


810. Int J Cancer. 2023 Sep 15. doi: 10.1002/ijc.34727. Online ahead of print.

State of the science and future directions for research on HIV and cancer: 
Summary of a joint workshop sponsored by IARC and NCI.

Engels EA(1), Shiels MS(1), Barnabas RV(2), Bohlius J(3)(4), Brennan P(5), 
Castilho J(6), Chanock SJ(1), Clarke MA(1), Coghill AE(7), Combes JD(8), 
Dryden-Peterson S(9)(10), D'Souza G(11), Gopal S(12), Jaquet A(13), Lurain 
K(14), Makinson A(15), Martin J(16), Muchengeti M(17)(18)(19), Newton R(20)(21), 
Okuku F(22), Orem J(22), Palefsky JM(23), Ramaswami R(14), Robbins HA(5), Sigel 
K(24), Silver S(25), Suneja G(26), Yarchoan R(14), Clifford GM(8).

Author information:
(1)Division of Cancer Epidemiology and Genetics, National Cancer Institute, 
National Institutes of Health, Rockville, Maryland, USA.
(2)Division of Infectious Diseases, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts, USA.
(3)University of Basel, Basel, Switzerland.
(4)Department for Epidemiology and Public Health, Swiss Tropical and Public 
Health Institute, Allschwil, Switzerland.
(5)Genomic Epidemiology Branch, International Agency for Research on Cancer 
(IARC/WHO), Lyon, France.
(6)Division of Infectious Diseases, Department of Medicine, Vanderbilt 
University Medical Center, Nashville, Tennessee, USA.
(7)Department of Cancer Epidemiology and Center for Immunization and Infection 
Research in Cancer, H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center and Research Institute, Tampa, 
Florida, USA.
(8)International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC/WHO), Early Detection, 
Prevention and Infections Branch, Lyon, France.
(9)Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(10)Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(11)Department of Epidemiology, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, 
Baltimore, Maryland, USA.
(12)Center for Global Health, National Cancer Institute, National Institutes of 
Health, Rockville, Maryland, USA.
(13)National Institute for Health and Medical Research (INSERM), UMR, 1219, 
Research Institute for Sustainable Development (IRD), EMR 271, Bordeaux 
Population, Health Centre, University of Bordeaux, Bordeaux, France.
(14)HIV and AIDS Malignancy Branch, Center for Cancer Research, National Cancer 
Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland, USA.
(15)Infectious Disease Department, CHU La Colombière, Montpellier & Inserm 
U1175, University of Montpellier, Montpellier, France.
(16)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, University of California, San 
Francisco, California, USA.
(17)National Cancer Registry, National Health Laboratory Service, Johannesburg, 
South Africa.
(18)Division of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, Faculty 
of Health Sciences, University of Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, South Africa.
(19)South African DSI-NRF Centre of Excellence in Epidemiological Modelling and 
Analysis (SACEMA), Stellenbosch University, Stellenbosch, South Africa.
(20)MRC/UVRI and LSHTM Uganda Research Unit, Entebbe, Uganda.
(21)University of York, York, UK.
(22)Uganda Cancer Institute, Kampala, Uganda.
(23)Department of Medicine, University of California, San Francisco, California, 
USA.
(24)Division of Infectious Diseases, Department of Medicine, Icahn School of 
Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, New York, USA.
(25)George Washington University, Washington, DC, USA.
(26)Department of Radiation Oncology, Huntsman Cancer Institute at the 
University of Utah, Salt Lake City, Utah, USA.

An estimated 38 million people live with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) 
worldwide and are at excess risk for multiple cancer types. Elevated cancer 
risks in people living with HIV (PLWH) are driven primarily by increased 
exposure to carcinogens, most notably oncogenic viruses acquired through shared 
transmission routes, plus acceleration of viral carcinogenesis by HIV-related 
immunosuppression. In the era of widespread antiretroviral therapy (ART), life 
expectancy of PLWH has increased, with cancer now a leading cause of 
co-morbidity and death. Furthermore, the types of cancers occurring among PLWH 
are shifting over time and vary in their relative burden in different parts of 
the world. In this context, the International Agency for Research on Cancer 
(IARC) and the US National Cancer Institute (NCI) convened a meeting in 
September 2022 of multinational and multidisciplinary experts to focus on cancer 
in PLWH. This report summarizes the proceedings, including a review of the state 
of the science of cancer descriptive epidemiology, etiology, molecular tumor 
characterization, primary and secondary prevention, treatment disparities and 
survival in PLWH around the world. A consensus of key research priorities and 
recommendations in these domains is also presented.

© 2023 International Agency for Research on Cancer; licensed by UICC and The 
Authors. International Journal of Cancer published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on 
behalf of UICC. This article has been contributed to by U.S. Government 
employees and their work is in the public domain in the USA.

DOI: 10.1002/ijc.34727
PMID: 37715370


811. Semin Immunol. 2023 Sep 14;70:101839. doi: 10.1016/j.smim.2023.101839.
Online  ahead of print.

Better safe than sorry: Naive T-cell dynamics in healthy ageing.

de Boer RJ(1), Tesselaar K(2), Borghans JAM(3).

Author information:
(1)Theoretical Biology and Bioinformatics, Utrecht University, Utrecht, the 
Netherlands.
(2)Center for Translational Immunology, University Medical Center Utrecht, 
Utrecht, the Netherlands.
(3)Center for Translational Immunology, University Medical Center Utrecht, 
Utrecht, the Netherlands. Electronic address: j.borghans@umcutrecht.nl.

It is well-known that the functioning of the immune system gradually 
deteriorates with age, and we are increasingly confronted with its consequences 
as the life expectancy of the human population increases. Changes in the T-cell 
pool are among the most prominent features of the changing immune system during 
healthy ageing, and changes in the naive T-cell pool in particular are generally 
held responsible for its gradual deterioration. These changes in the naive 
T-cell pool are thought to be due to involution of the thymus. It is commonly 
believed that the gradual loss of thymic output induces compensatory mechanisms 
to maintain the number of naive T cells at a relatively constant level, and 
induces a loss of diversity in the T-cell repertoire. Here we review the studies 
that support or challenge this widely-held view of immune ageing and discuss the 
implications for vaccination strategies.

Copyright © 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.smim.2023.101839
PMID: 37716048


812. Cortex. 2023 Nov;168:157-166. doi: 10.1016/j.cortex.2023.08.006. Epub 2023
Aug  25.

Experimentally-evidenced personality alterations following meningioma resection: 
A case report.

Orepic P(1), Iannotti GR(2), Haemmerli J(3), Goga C(3), Park HD(4), Betka S(1), 
Blanke O(5), Michel CM(6), Bondolfi G(7), Schaller K(8).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Cognitive Neuroscience, NeuroX Institute and Brain Mind 
Institute, Faculty of Life Sciences, École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne 
(EPFL), Geneva, Switzerland.
(2)Functional Brain Mapping Lab, Department of Fundamental Neurosciences, 
University of Geneva, Geneva, Switzerland; Department of Neurosurgery, Geneva 
University Medical Center & Faculty of Medicine, University of Geneva, Geneva, 
Switzerland.
(3)Department of Neurosurgery, Geneva University Medical Center & Faculty of 
Medicine, University of Geneva, Geneva, Switzerland.
(4)Graduate Institute of Mind, Brain and Consciousness, Taipei Medical 
University, Taipei, Taiwan; Brain and Consciousness Research Centre, Shuang-Ho 
Hospital, New Taipei City, Taiwan.
(5)Laboratory of Cognitive Neuroscience, NeuroX Institute and Brain Mind 
Institute, Faculty of Life Sciences, École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne 
(EPFL), Geneva, Switzerland; Faculty of Medicine, University of Geneva, Geneva, 
Switzerland.
(6)Functional Brain Mapping Lab, Department of Fundamental Neurosciences, 
University of Geneva, Geneva, Switzerland; Center for Biomedical Imaging (CIBM), 
Lausanne and Geneva, Switzerland.
(7)Department of Psychiatry, Geneva University Medical Center & Faculty of 
Medicine, University of Geneva, Geneva, Switzerland.
(8)Department of Neurosurgery, Geneva University Medical Center & Faculty of 
Medicine, University of Geneva, Geneva, Switzerland. Electronic address: 
karl.schaller@unige.ch.

Personality changes following neurosurgical procedures remain poorly understood 
and pose a major concern for patients, rendering a strong need for predictive 
biomarkers. Here we report a case of a female patient in her 40s who underwent 
resection of a large sagittal sinus meningioma with bilateral extension, 
including resection and ligation of the superior sagittal sinus, that resulted 
in borderline personality disorder. Importantly, we captured clinically-observed 
personality changes in a series of experiments assessing self-other voice 
discrimination, one of the experimental markers for self-consciousness. In all 
experiments, the patient consistently confused self- and other voices - i.e., 
she misattributed other-voice stimuli to herself and self-voice stimuli to 
others. Moreover, the electroencephalogram (EEG) microstate, that was in healthy 
participants observed when hearing their own voice, in this patient occurred for 
other-voice stimuli. We hypothesize that the patient's personality alterations 
resulted from a gradual development of a venous collateral hemodynamic network 
that impacted venous drainage of brain areas associated with self-consciousness. 
In addition, resection and ligation of the superior sagittal sinus significantly 
aggravated personality alterations through postoperative decompensation of a 
direct frontal lobe compression. Experimentally mirroring clinical observations, 
these findings are of high relevance for developing biomarkers of post-surgical 
personality alterations.

Copyright © 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cortex.2023.08.006
PMID: 37716111

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
have no competing interests to declare.


813. Can J Cardiol. 2023 Sep 14:S0828-282X(23)01662-8. doi: 
10.1016/j.cjca.2023.09.010. Online ahead of print.

Lifetime Management of Patients with Severe Aortic Stenosis in the era of 
transcatheter aortic valve replacement.

Jubran A(1), Patel RV(2), Sathananthan J(3), Wijeysundera HC(4).

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, Schulich Heart Program, 
Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre, Toronto, Ontario, Canada; Department of 
Medicine, Temerty Faculty of Medicine, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada.
(2)Department of Medicine, Temerty Faculty of Medicine, University of Toronto, 
Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(3)Centre for Cardiovascular Innovation - Centre d'Innovation Cardiovasculaire, 
St Paul's and Vancouver General Hospitals, University of British Columbia, 
Vancouver, Canada.
(4)Division of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, Schulich Heart Program, 
Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre, Toronto, Ontario, Canada; Department of 
Medicine, Temerty Faculty of Medicine, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada; Institute for Clinical Evaluative Sciences, Toronto, Ontario, Canada; 
Institute for Health Policy, Management, and Evaluation, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada; Sunnybrook Research Institute, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. Electronic 
address: Harindra.wijeysundera@sunnybrook.ca.

Aortic stenosis is the most common valvular disease. Surgical aortic valve 
replacement (SAVR) using mechanical valves has been the preferred treatment for 
younger patients, but bioprosthetic valves are gaining favor in order to avoid 
anticoagulation with warfarin. Transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) was 
approved in recent years for the treatment of severe aortic stenosis in 
intermediate and low-risk patients as an alternative to surgical aortic valve 
replacement (SAVR). The longer life expectancy of these groups of patients might 
exceed the durability of the TAVR or SAVR bioprosthetic valves. Therefore, many 
patients will need 2 or even 3 interventions during their lifetime. Since it has 
important implications on the feasibility of subsequent procedures, the decision 
between opting for SAVR or TAVR as the primary procedure requires thorough 
consideration by the heart team, incorporating patient preferences, clinical 
indicators, and anatomical aspects. If TAVR is favored initially, selecting the 
valve type and determining the implantation level should be conducted, aiming 
for positive outcomes in the index intervention and keeping in mind the 
potential for subsequent TAVR-in-TAVR procedures. When SAVR is selected as the 
primary procedure, the operator must make choices regarding the valve type and 
the potential need for aortic root enlargement, with the intention of 
facilitating future Valve-in-Valve interventions. This narrative review will 
examine the existing evidence concerning the lifelong management of severe 
aortic stenosis, delving into available treatment strategies, particularly 
emphasizing the initial procedure's selection and its impact on subsequent 
interventions.

Copyright © 2023. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cjca.2023.09.010
PMID: 37716642


814. Neurobiol Dis. 2023 Oct 15;187:106300. doi: 10.1016/j.nbd.2023.106300. Epub
2023  Sep 16.

A murine model of BSCL2-associated Celia's encephalopathy.

Cobelo-Gómez S(1), Sánchez-Iglesias S(1), Rábano A(2), Senra A(3), Aguiar P(4), 
Gómez-Lado N(4), García-Varela L(4), Burgueño-García I(2), Lampón-Fernández 
L(1), Fernández-Pombo A(5), Díaz-López EJ(5), Prado-Moraña T(5), San Millán 
B(6), Araújo-Vilar D(7).

Author information:
(1)UETeM-Molecular Pathology Group. Department of Psychiatry, Radiology, Public 
Health, Nursing and Medicine, IDIS-CIMUS, University of Santiago de Compostela, 
Spain.
(2)Alzheimer's Disease Research Unit, CIEN Foundation, Queen Sofia Foundation 
Alzheimer Center, Madrid, Spain.
(3)Department of Physiology, CIMUS, University of Santiago de Compostela, Spain.
(4)Molecular Imaging and Medical Physics, University of Santiago de 
Compostela-IDIS, Spain; Nuclear Medicine and Molecular Imaging Group, IDIS, 
University Clinical Hospital of Santiago de Compostela, Spain.
(5)UETeM-Molecular Pathology Group. Department of Psychiatry, Radiology, Public 
Health, Nursing and Medicine, IDIS-CIMUS, University of Santiago de Compostela, 
Spain; Division of Endocrinology and Nutrition, University Clinical Hospital of 
Santiago de Compostela, Spain.
(6)Grupo de Enfermedades Raras y Medicina Pediátrica, Instituto de Investigación 
Sanitaria Galicia Sur (IISGS), Vigo, Spain; Pathology Department, Alvaro 
Cunqueiro Hospital, Vigo, Spain.
(7)UETeM-Molecular Pathology Group. Department of Psychiatry, Radiology, Public 
Health, Nursing and Medicine, IDIS-CIMUS, University of Santiago de Compostela, 
Spain; Division of Endocrinology and Nutrition, University Clinical Hospital of 
Santiago de Compostela, Spain. Electronic address: david.araujo@usc.es.

Celia's encephalopathy or progressive encephalopathy with/without lipodystrophy 
is a neurodegenerative disease with a fatal prognosis in childhood. It is 
generally caused by the c.985C > T variant in the BSCL2 gene, leading to the 
skipping of exon 7 and resulting in an aberrant seipin protein (Celia-seipin). 
To precisely define the temporal evolution and the mechanisms involved in 
neurodegeneration, lipodystrophy and fatty liver in Celia's encephalopathy, our 
group has generated the first global knock-in murine model for the aberrant 
human transcript of BSCL2 (Bscl2Celia/Celia) using a strategy based on the 
Cre/loxP recombination system. In order to carry out a characterization at the 
neurological, adipose tissue and hepatic level, behavioral studies, brain PET, 
metabolic, histological and molecular studies were performed. Around 12% of 
homozygous and 5.4% of heterozygous knock-in mice showed severe neurological 
symptoms early in life, and their life expectancy was dramatically reduced. 
Severe generalized lipodystrophy and mild hepatic steatosis were present in 
these affected animals, while serum triglycerides and glucose metabolism were 
normal, with no insulin resistance. Furthermore, the study revealed a reduction 
in brain glucose uptake, along with patchy loss of Purkinje cells and the 
presence of intranuclear inclusions in cerebellar cortex cells. Homozygous, 
non-severely-affected knock-in mice showed a decrease in locomotor activity and 
greater anxiety compared with their wild type littermates. Bscl2Celia/Celia is 
the first murine model of Celia's encephalopathy which partially recapitulates 
the phenotype and severe neurodegenerative picture suffered by these patients. 
This model will provide a helpful tool to investigate both the progressive 
encephalopathy with/without lipodystrophy and congenital generalized 
lipodystrophy.

Copyright © 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nbd.2023.106300
PMID: 37717662

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no competing interests.


815. Sci Total Environ. 2023 Dec 20;905:167093. doi:
10.1016/j.scitotenv.2023.167093.  Epub 2023 Sep 17.

Submicronic particulate matter (PM(1)), a "neglected killer" for HIV/AIDS 
patients in Hubei, China: Results from a cohort study from 2001 to 2020.

Zhang F(1), Wan Y(2), Tang H(3), Zhao D(3), Zhu S(1), Ruan L(4), Zhu W(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Occupational and Evironmental Health, School of Public Health, 
Wuhan University, Wuhan 430071, China.
(2)The Ganyu District People's Hospital of Lianyungang City, Lianyungang 222199, 
China.
(3)Institute for the Prevention and Control of HIV/AIDS, Hubei Provincial Center 
for Disease Control and Prevention, Wuhan 430079, China.
(4)Department of Infectious Disease, Wuhan Jinyintan Hospital, Wuhan 430048, 
China.
(5)Department of Occupational and Evironmental Health, School of Public Health, 
Wuhan University, Wuhan 430071, China. Electronic address: weizhu@whu.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: Although with the progress of antiretroviral therapy, the life 
expectancy of HIV/AIDS patients was still not equal to that of normal people. 
Submicronic particulate matter (PM1) might play a role in mortality among people 
living with HIV/AIDS, However, cohort evidence is extensively scarce.
METHODS: This twenty-year open cohort study involved all individuals officially 
diagnosed with HIV/AIDS in Hubei Province from 2001 to 2020. Time-varying Cox 
proportional hazard models were applied to investigate the associations between 
long-term exposure to PM1 and mortality in HIV/AIDS patients. The 
concentration-response curves between PM1 and AIDS-related deaths/all-cause 
deaths were characterized by fitting restricted cubic spline models. These 
curves were then utilized to estimate the number of deaths attributed to PM1.
RESULTS: Long-term exposure to PM1 was significantly associated with 
AIDS-related deaths and all-cause death among HIV/AIDS patients, with excess 
risks of 2.33 % [95 % confidence interval (CIs): 1.62, 3.15] and 0.69 % (0.22, 
1.17) for each 1 μg/m3 increase in annual PM1. HIV-positive people with lower 
initial CD4+ cell count levels or aged over 65 years old were more susceptible 
to PM1 exposure. We estimated about 844 AIDS-related deaths and 1175 all-cause 
deaths can be attributable to ambient PM1 exposure, accounting for 41.7 % and 
23.8 % of the total deaths from corresponding causes, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Long-term exposure PM1 was a novel factor hindering the life spans 
of people living with HIV/AIDS. Early establishment of PM1 concentration 
standards and efforts to achieve them will bring substantial health benefits to 
people living with HIV/AIDS, especially in low- and middle-income countries 
facing the dual challenges of high air pollution and high AIDS prevalence.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2023.167093
PMID: 37717746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


816. Zhongguo Xiu Fu Chong Jian Wai Ke Za Zhi. 2023 Sep 15;37(9):1086-1093. doi: 
10.7507/1002-1892.202305021.

[Return to sports WeChat applet for evaluating the rehabilitation effects after 
anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Shi Z(1), Li Y(1), Yu Y(1), Li K(1), Tang W(1), Ning Z(1), He R(1), Wang K(1), 
Wang G(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sports Medicine, the First Affiliated Hospital of Kunming 
Medical University, Kunming Yunnan, 650032, P. R. China.

OBJECTIVE: To clarify the intervention guidance of return to sports WeChat 
applet and evaluate the rehabilitation effectiveness after anterior cruciate 
ligament (ACL) reconstruction.
METHODS: Between September 2020 and September 2022, 80 patients who met the 
selection criteria and underwent ACL anatomical single bundle reconstruction 
were selected as the research objects. According to the double-blind random 
method, they were divided into the applet group and the regular group, with 40 
cases in each group. Patients in the applet group were rehabilitated under the 
guidance of the return to sports WeChat applet, and the patients were asked to 
perform the test once a month after operation, including patients' subjective 
scores [Tegner score, knee injury and osteoarthritis outcome score (KOOS), 
International Knee Documentation Committee (IKDC) score, American Hospital for 
Special Surgery (HSS) score], psychological assessment [ACL recovery sports 
injury scale (ACL-RSI) score], jumping test, balance test, bending angle test. 
Patients in the regular group were followed up by doctors and nurses regularly 
by telephone every month. All the patients were reexamined at 3, 6, 9, and 12 
months after operation, and the range of motion of the knee joint with 6 degrees 
of freedom (flexion and extension angle, varus and valgus angle, internal and 
external rotation angle, anteroposterior displacement, superior and inferior 
displacement, and internal and external displacement) recorded by Opti_Knee 
three-dimensional knee joint motion measurement gait analysis system was 
observed. The anterior tibial translation difference (ATTD) was measured by Ligs 
knee measuring instrument when a forward thrust of 120 N was applied to the 
posterior part of the proximal tibia. Tegner score, IKDC score, KOOS score 
(including KOOS-Pain score, KOOS-Symptoms score, KOOS-Activities of daily living 
score, KOOS-Sport score, and KOOS-Quality of life score), HSS score, ACL-RSI 
score, jumping ability, balance ability, patients' satisfaction with the 
rehabilitation process, and ACL healing grading according to ACL continuity and 
signal intensity shown by MRI.
RESULTS: There were significant differences in various indicators between 
different time points after operation in the two groups ( P<0.05). At 3 months 
after operation, except that the ACL-RSI score of the applet group was 
significantly higher than that of the regular group ( P<0.05), there was no 
significant difference in the other indicators between the two groups ( P>0.05). 
At 6 months after operation, the ACL-RSI score, IKDC score, Tegner score, KOOS 
scores of different items, HSS score, balance and jumping ability of the applet 
group were significantly higher than those of the regular group ( P<0.05), and 
there was no significant difference in the other indicators between the two 
groups ( P>0.05). At 9 months after operation, there was no significant 
difference in all indicators between the two groups ( P>0.05). At 12 months 
after operation, 27 cases (67.5%) in the applet group and 21 cases (52.5%) in 
the regular group returned to sport, with a significant difference of the return 
to sports incidence between the two groups [ RR(95% CI)=1.50 (1.00, 2.25), 
P=0.049]. In the applet group, 27 cases were very satisfied with the 
rehabilitation process, 10 cases were satisfied, 2 cases were basically 
satisfied, and 1 case was not satisfied, while 19, 13, 5, and 3 cases in the 
regular group, respectively. The satisfaction degree of the applet group was 
significantly better than that of the regular group ( P=0.049). MRI examination 
of the two groups showed that the ACL was continuous without secondary rupture 
or necrosis. The ACL healing grade of the applet group was 31 cases of grade 1 
and 9 cases of grade 2, and that of the regular group was 28 cases of grade 1 
and 12 cases of grade 2, there was no significant difference in ACL healing 
grade between the two groups ( P=0.449).
CONCLUSION: The application of return to sports WeChat applet in the 
rehabilitation of patients after ACL reconstruction can significantly reduce the 
fear of return to sports and improve the rate of return to sports. The return to 
sports WeChat applet is convenient to operate, with high utilization rate and 
high patient compliance, which significantly improves the satisfaction.

Publisher: 目的: 探讨重返运动微信小程序干预指导并评估前交叉韧带（anterior cruciate 
ligament，ACL）重建术后康复锻炼的疗效。.
方法: 
选取2020年9月—2022年9月符合选择标准的80例行ACL解剖单束重建患者为研究对象，按双盲随机法分为小程序组和常规组，每组40例。小程序组患者在重返运动微信小程序指导下进行康复，术后每月进行1次测试，包括患者主观评分 
［膝关节运动水平Tegner评分、膝关节损伤与骨关节炎结果（KOOS）评分、国际膝关节文献委员会（IKDC）评分、美国特种外科医院（HSS）评分］、心理评估 
［ACL恢复运动损伤量表（ACL-RSI）评分］、跳跃测试、平衡测试、弯曲角度测试；常规组由医师及护士每月定期对患者行电话随访。两组患者于术后3、6、9、12个月复查，观测指标包括：Opti_Knee膝关节三维运动测量步态分析系统记录的膝关节6个自由度（屈伸角、内外翻角、内外旋角、前后位移、上下位移及内外位移）活动范围，Ligs关节韧带数字体查仪测量对胫骨近端后方施加前向推力120 
N时患者的胫骨前向位移差异（anterior tibial translation 
difference，ATTD），Tegner评分、IKDC评分、KOOS评分（包括疼痛、症状、日常生活、体育娱乐、生活质量5项评分）、HSS评分、ACL-RSI评分，跳跃能力和平衡能力，患者对康复过程满意程度，以及根据MRI显示的ACL连续性和信号强度进行ACL愈合分级。.
结果: 两组患者各指标术后各时间点间差异均有统计学意义（ P<0.05）。术后3个月，除小程序组ACL-RSI评分高于常规组（ 
P<0.05）外，其余指标两组间比较差异均无统计学意义（ 
P>0.05）。术后6个月，小程序组ACL-RSI评分、IKDC评分、Tegner评分、KOOS各项评分、HSS评分及平衡和跳跃能力均高于常规组（ 
P<0.05），其余指标两组间比较差异均无统计学意义（ P>0.05）。术后9个月，两组间各指标差异均无统计学意义（ 
P>0.05）。术后12个月，小程序组重返运动达标27例（67.5%），常规组21例（52.5%），两组重返运动率差异有统计学意义 ［ RR（95% 
CI）=1.50（1.00，2.25）， 
P=0.049］。小程序组对康复过程非常满意27例、满意10例、基本满意2例、不满意1例，常规组分别为19、13、5、3例，小程序组满意程度优于常规组（ 
P=0.049）。两组患者MRI检查均可见ACL走行连续，无二次断裂及坏死，其中小程序组ACL愈合分级达1级31例、2级9例，常规组1级28例、2级12例，两组ACL愈合分级比较差异无统计学意义（ 
P=0.449）。.
结论: 
应用重返运动小程序干预指导ACL重建术后康复可显著减轻患者对重返运动的恐惧心理，提高术后重返运动率；且该小程序操作便捷、使用率高、患者依从性高，满意度明显提升。.

DOI: 10.7507/1002-1892.202305021
PMCID: PMC10505628
PMID: 37718420 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: 
利益冲突　在课题研究和文章撰写过程中不存在利益冲突；项目经费支持没有影响文章观点和对研究数据客观结果的统计分析及其报道


817. Nurs Stand. 2023 Sep 18. doi: 10.7748/ns.2023.e12160. Online ahead of print.

Investigating inequalities in men's health: a literature review.

Shelswell R(1), Watson J(1).

Author information:
(1)Torbay and South Devon NHS Foundation Trust, Torbay Hospital, Torquay, 
England.

As part of a project to review the delivery of healthcare services in Torbay and 
South Devon, England, the author undertook a literature review focusing on the 
specialty of men's health. Men have a shorter life expectancy than women and 
this discrepancy is particularly pronounced in areas of social deprivation such 
as those found in the coastal and rural communities of the author's locality. 
The concept of men's health is complex, and this literature review identified 
five main themes that can have a significant influence on the delivery of 
healthcare services for men: masculinity, ethnicity, mental health, relevance of 
place, and access to services. In this article, the author discusses these 
themes and considers approaches that could be used to improve the provision of 
men's healthcare.

© 2023 RCN Publishing Company Ltd. All rights reserved. Not to be copied, 
transmitted or recorded in any way, in whole or part, without prior permission 
of the publishers.

DOI: 10.7748/ns.2023.e12160
PMID: 37718546

Conflict of interest statement: None declared


818. F S Rep. 2023 Jun 13;4(3):300-307. doi: 10.1016/j.xfre.2023.06.001.
eCollection  2023 Sep.

Preimplantation genetic testing for sickle cell disease: a cost-effectiveness 
analysis.

Combs JC(1)(2), Dougherty M(3), Yamasaki MU(1)(2), DeCherney AH(1), Devine 
KM(4), Hill MJ(1)(2), Rothwell E(5), O'Brien JE(4), Nelson RE(5).

Author information:
(1)Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human 
Development, Bethesda, Maryland.
(2)Walter Reed National Military Medical Center, Bethesda, Maryland.
(3)University of Utah, Salt Lake City, Utah.
(4)Shady Grove Fertility Center, Rockville, Maryland.
(5)University of Utah School of Medicine, Salt Lake City, Utah.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of in vitro fertilization with 
preimplantation genetic testing for monogenic disease (IVF + PGT-M) in the 
conception of a nonsickle cell disease (non-SCD) individual compared with 
standard of care treatment for a naturally conceived, sickle cell disease 
(SCD)-affected individual.
DESIGN: A Markov simulation model was constructed to evaluate a one-time IVF + 
PGT-M treatment compared with the lifetime standard of care costs of treatment 
for an individual potentially born with SCD. Using an annual discount rate of 3% 
for cost and outcome measures, quality-adjusted life years were constructed from 
utility weights and life expectancy values and then used as the effectiveness 
measurement. An incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was calculated for both 
treatment arms, and a willingness-to-pay threshold of $50,000 per 
quality-adjusted life year was assumed.
SETTING: Tertiary care or university medical center.
PATIENTS: A hypothetical cohort of 10,000 patients was analzyed over a lifetime 
horizon using yearly cycles.
INTERVENTIONS: In vitro fertilization with preimplantation genetic testing for 
monogenic disease use in conception of a non-SCD individual.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The primary outcomes of interest were the incremental 
cost and effectiveness of an IVF+PGT-M conception compared with the SOC 
treatment of an SCD-affected individual.
RESULTS: In vitro fertilization with preimplantation genetic testing for 
monogenic disease was the optimal strategy in 93.17% of the iterations. An 
incremental savings of $137,594 was demonstrated with a gain of 1.96 QALYs and 
3.69 life years over a lifetime. Sensitivity analysis demonstrated that SOC 
treatment never met equivalent cost-effectiveness.
CONCLUSIONS: Our model demonstrates that IVF + PGT-M for selection against SCD, 
compared with lifetime SOC treatment for those affected, is the most 
cost-effective strategy within the United States healthcare sector.

DOI: 10.1016/j.xfre.2023.06.001
PMCID: PMC10504548
PMID: 37719105


819. Cureus. 2023 Aug 16;15(8):e43566. doi: 10.7759/cureus.43566. eCollection
2023  Aug.

Compliance With Percutaneous Endoscopic Gastrostomy Tube Insertion Guidelines 
and Associated Complications in a Tertiary Care Setting: A Clinical Audit.

Ahmad MB(1), Ansar F(1), Shakoor K(1), Adnan M(1), Naqi SA(2), Tahir Z(2), Rauf 
MS(3), Bin Shafaat Chaudhary U(2), Alamgir A(4), Aslam N(2).

Author information:
(1)Medicine, Quaid-e-Azam International Hospital, Islamabad, PAK.
(2)Surgery, Quaid-e-Azam International Hospital, Islamabad, PAK.
(3)Medicine and Surgery, Northwest General Hospital, Peshawar, PAK.
(4)Internal Medicine, Fauji Foundation Hospital Rawalpindi, Islamabad, PAK.

INTRODUCTION: Percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy (PEG) tube insertion is a 
widely utilized enteral access technique offering long-term nutritional support 
for patients unable to tolerate oral intake. While the PEG tube provides 
numerous advantages, adherence to evidence-based guidelines is crucial to 
minimize complications. This study aims to evaluate adherence to PEG tube 
insertion guidelines and analyze associated complication rates in a tertiary 
care setting.
METHODS: A retrospective clinical audit was conducted at Quaid-e-Azam 
International Hospital, Islamabad. Data were collected over three years from 
patients undergoing PEG tube insertion by a single consultant gastrointestinal 
surgeon. Adherence to guidelines was evaluated using a 10-item checklist 
developed based on European Society of Gastrointestinal Endoscopy (ESGE) 
guidelines. Complication rates and patient characteristics were analyzed.
RESULTS: The study included 70 participants (mean age = 72.21 ± 13.17). The PEG 
tube insertion rate was 100%. The mean checklist score was 8.34 ± 1.2. 
Laboratory investigations were performed for 98.6% of patients. 91.4% of 
patients had a life expectancy exceeding 30 days. 60% of patients received an 
anticoagulation hold. Prophylactic antibiotics were administered to 90% of 
patients. Psychological counseling and dietician consultation were offered to 
38.6% and 64.2% of patients, respectively. Caregivers received specialized 
training in 98.5% of cases. 12.8% of patients experienced early complications 
post-procedure, and 14.2% experienced late complications. PEG tube removal 
occurred in 27% of patients, with only one patient experiencing complications 
after removal.
CONCLUSION: Adherence to PEG tube insertion guidelines was observed in various 
aspects of patient care, resulting in a low incidence of complications. 
Comprehensive auditing and guideline adherence are essential to ensure optimal 
patient safety and procedural outcomes.

Copyright © 2023, Ahmad et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.43566
PMCID: PMC10503224
PMID: 37719490

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


820. Cureus. 2023 Aug 17;15(8):e43664. doi: 10.7759/cureus.43664. eCollection
2023  Aug.

Assessment of Quality of Life Among the Geriatric Population in an Urban Slum 
Settlement of Bhubaneswar, Odisha.

Sarkar A(1), Mohapatra I(1), Rout R(1).

Author information:
(1)Community Medicine, Kalinga Institute of Medical Sciences, Kalinga Institute 
of Industrial Technology (KIIT) University, Bhubaneswar, IND.

BACKGROUND: Multidimensional components of quality of life such as well-being, 
satisfaction, and lifestyle together ensure an improvement in longer life 
expectancy. Therefore, it is important to emphasize the assessment of the 
quality of life (QoL) of the elderly population and its association with various 
background characteristics.
METHODOLOGY: A community-based cross-sectional study was carried out from April 
to September 2017 among 270 consenting elderly people residing in urban slums 
under the field practice area of a medical college, using a well-structured, 
globally validated World Health Organization Quality of Life Brief Version 
(WHOQOL-BREF) tool. The scores were computed for the different domains of WHO 
QoL, and the mean score of these domains was compared among the different 
socio-economic and demographic factors.
RESULTS: The majority (67.41%) of the sampled population belonged to the 60- to 
69-year-old age group; females (63.70%) outnumbered males. The total QoL score 
was 47.52 ± 15.06 showing that the average population had a fair QoL. The 
environmental domain had a poor QoL (43.15) score, and the rest of the domains 
showed a fair QoL. Higher age groups, persons other than self-employed, and the 
upper class were seen to have significantly lower QoL scores in all four 
domains. Females had a lower QoL score in the physical as well as social domains 
as compared to males.
CONCLUSION: Aging is associated with a decrease in social and economic 
participation. In areas of compromised living conditions, like slums, the 
environmental domain adds to the decrease in quality along with the other 
domains. Ageing, employment status, socio-economic class, and the female gender 
had significantly lower QoL scores in all four domains.

Copyright © 2023, Sarkar et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.43664
PMCID: PMC10505087
PMID: 37719574

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


821. Malays Fam Physician. 2023 Aug 30;18:49-100. doi: 10.51866/cm.264.
eCollection  2023.

Is menopause managed well enough in general practice?

Thuraisingham C(1), Nalliah S(2).

Author information:
(1)MBBS, FAFP, FRACGP, AM, DRM, PDOH, Department of Family Medicine, 
International Medical University, Clinical Campus Seremban, Seremban, Negeri 
Sembilan, Malaysia. Email: chandramani@imu.edu.my.
(2)MBBS, MCGP, FRCOG, FAMM, FICS, M Ed, MIDT, Department of Obstetrics & 
Gynaecology, International Medical University, Clinical Campus Seremban, 
Seremban, Negeri Sembilan, Malaysia.

Menopause is an important phase in the life of older women. Women's life 
expectancy has increased worldwide. As women experience and perceive menopause 
differently depending on their personal, family and sociocultural backgrounds, 
perimenopausal symptoms can often go unnoticed and missed by general 
practitioners. General practitioners are uniquely placed in the healthcare 
delivery pyramid to close this gap and improve patients' quality of life by 
identifying perimenopausal signs and symptoms early. This article shares 
knowledge about continuing medical education for general practitioners to close 
the existing gap. As there is great variability within each menopausal woman's 
experience as well as among individual women, there is a need to individualise 
and render personalised care. By being able to discuss accepted and safe 
standards of care and by advocating for a holistic approach incorporating both 
non-pharmacological and pharmacological strategies, general practitioners would 
be able to improve the confidence of their patients for better health outcomes.

© Academy of Family Physicians of Malaysia.

DOI: 10.51866/cm.264
PMCID: PMC10504900
PMID: 37719692

Conflict of interest statement: None.


822. Front Public Health. 2023 Aug 31;11:1224018. doi:
10.3389/fpubh.2023.1224018.  eCollection 2023.

Prediction model of quality of life using the decision tree model in older adult 
single-person households: a secondary data analysis.

Ryu D(1), Sok S(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nursing, Graduate School, Kyung Hee University, Seoul, Republic 
of Korea.
(2)College of Nursing Science, Kyung Hee University, Seoul, Republic of Korea.

BACKGROUND: Attention is drawn to the subjective health status and quality of 
life of older adult single-person households, whose number is gradually 
increasing as factors including low fertility, increased life expectancy, aging, 
and household miniaturization interact.
OBJECTIVE: The study was to identify predictors that affect the quality of life 
of single-person households aged 65 years or older and living in South Korea.
METHODS: A secondary data analysis design was used. Data included physical, 
mental, social, and demographic characteristics, subjective health status, and 
quality of life parameters of 1,029 older adult single-person households 
surveyed by the Korea Health Panel in 2019. For analysis, the predictive model 
was evaluated using split-sample validation and the ROC curve. The area under 
the curve after the decision tree analysis was calculated. Final nodes 
predicting the quality of life of older adult single-person households were 
derived.
RESULTS: Significant predictors were identified in this order: subjective health 
status, chronic disease, income, and age. Subjective health status was the most 
important factor influencing quality of life (△ p < 0.001, x2 = 151.774). The 
first combination that perceived high quality of life of older adult 
single-person households was the case of high subjective health status and no 
chronic disease, followed by the case of high subjective health status, presence 
of chronic disease, and high income.
CONCLUSION: This study confirmed that subjective health status and chronic 
disease are essential factors for quality of life among the four related 
indicators of quality of life presented by the OECD. In nursing practice, nurses 
need to pay attention the factors influencing quality of life of older adult 
single-person households. Especially, nursing practice for older adult 
single-person households needs to be focused on improving subjective health 
status and on relieving chronic disease.

Copyright © 2023 Ryu and Sok.

DOI: 10.3389/fpubh.2023.1224018
PMCID: PMC10502226
PMID: 37719721 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


823. Int J Gen Med. 2023 Sep 11;16:4121-4141. doi: 10.2147/IJGM.S418837.
eCollection  2023.

Insight into the Progress in CAR-T Cell Therapy and Combination with Other 
Therapies for Glioblastoma.

Liang T(#)(1), Song Y(#)(1), Gu L(1), Wang Y(1), Ma W(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Peking Union Medical College Hospital, Chinese 
Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, People's 
Republic of China.
(#)Contributed equally

Glioblastoma (GBM) is the most common malignant primary brain cancer in adults. 
It is always resistant to existing treatments, including surgical resection, 
postoperative radiotherapy, and chemotherapy, which leads to a dismal prognosis 
and a high relapse rate. Therefore, novel curative therapies are urgently needed 
for GBM. Chimeric antigen receptor T (CAR-T) cell therapy has significantly 
improved life expectancy for hematological malignancies patients, and thus it 
increases the interest in applying CAR-T cell therapy for solid tumors. In the 
recently published research, it is indicated that there are numerous obstacles 
to achieve clinical benefits for solid tumors, especially for GBM, because of 
GBM anatomical characteristics (the blood-brain barrier and suppressive tumor 
microenvironment) and the tumor heterogeneity. CAR-T cells are difficult to 
penetrate blood-brain barrier, and immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment 
(TME), which induces CAR-T cell exhaustion, impairs CAR-T cell therapy response. 
Moreover, under the pressure of CAR-T cell therapy, the tumor heterogeneity and 
tumor plasticity drive tumor evolution and therapy resistance, such as antigen 
escape. Nonetheless, scientists strive for strategies to overcome these hurdles, 
including novel CAR-T cell designs and regional delivery. For instance, the 
structure of multi-antigen-targeted CAR-T cells can enrich CAR-T accumulation in 
tumor TME and eliminate abundant tumor cells to avoid tumor antigen 
heterogeneity. Additionally, paired with an immune modifier and one or more 
stimulating domains, different generation of innovations in the structure and 
manufacturing of CAR-T cells have improved efficacy and persistence. While 
single CAR-T cell therapy receives limited clinical survival benefit. Compared 
with single CAR-T cell therapy, the combination therapies have supplemented the 
treatment paradigm. Combinatorial treatment methods consolidate the CAR-T cells 
efficacy by regulating the tumor microenvironment, optimizing the CAR structure, 
targeting the CAR-T cells to the tumor cells, reversing the tumor-immune escape 
mechanisms, and represent a promising avenue against GBM, based on multiple 
impressive research. Moreover, exciting results are also reported to be realized 
through combining effective therapies with CAR-T cells in preclinical and 
clinical trials samples, have aroused inspiration to explore the antitumor 
function of combination therapies. In summary, this study aims to summarize the 
limitation of CAR-T cell therapies and introduces novel strategies to enhance 
CAR-T cell function as well as prospect the potential of the therapeutic 
combination.

© 2023 Liang et al.

DOI: 10.2147/IJGM.S418837
PMCID: PMC10503554
PMID: 37720174

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there is no conflict of 
interest in this work. The authors have no personal, financial, or institutional 
interest in any of the drugs, materials, or devices described in this article.


824. Biodivers Data J. 2023 Sep 8;11:e100955. doi: 10.3897/BDJ.11.e100955. 
eCollection 2023.

Diversity and composition of flower-visiting insects and related factors in 
three fruit tree species.

Nakamura S(1), Taki H(2), Arai T(3), Funayama K(4), Furihata S(3), Furui Y(5), 
Ikeda T(6), Inoue H(7), Kagawa K(8), Kishimoto H(9), Kohyama M(10), Komatsu 
M(11), Konuma A(12), Nakada K(13), Nakamura S(14), Sawamura N(15), Sonoda S(8), 
Sueyoshi M(2), Toda S(16), Yaginuma K(17), Yamamoto S(18), Yoshida K(19), Yokoi 
T(20), Toyama M(3).

Author information:
(1)Forestry and Forest Products Research Institute, Forest Research and 
Management Organization, Hachioji, Japan Forestry and Forest Products Research 
Institute, Forest Research and Management Organization Hachioji Japan.
(2)Forestry and Forest Products Research Institute, Forest Research and 
Management Organization, Tsukuba, Japan Forestry and Forest Products Research 
Institute, Forest Research and Management Organization Tsukuba Japan.
(3)Institute for Plant Protection, National Agriculture and Food Research 
Organization, Tsukuba, Japan Institute for Plant Protection, National 
Agriculture and Food Research Organization Tsukuba Japan.
(4)Akita Fruit Tree Experiment Station, Yokote, Japan Akita Fruit Tree 
Experiment Station Yokote Japan.
(5)Tottori Prefecture Horticultural Research Center, Hokueicho, Japan Tottori 
Prefecture Horticultural Research Center Hokueicho Japan.
(6)Tohaku Agricultural Extension Center, Tottori Prefecture, Kotoura-cho, Japan 
Tohaku Agricultural Extension Center, Tottori Prefecture Kotoura-cho Japan.
(7)Institute for Plant Protection, National Agriculture and Food Research 
Organization, Higashihiroshima, Japan Institute for Plant Protection, National 
Agriculture and Food Research Organization Higashihiroshima Japan.
(8)School of Agriculture, Utsunomiya University, Utsunomiya, Japan School of 
Agriculture, Utsunomiya University Utsunomiya Japan.
(9)Institute for Plant Protection, National Agriculture and Food Research 
Organization, Morioka, Japan Institute for Plant Protection, National 
Agriculture and Food Research Organization Morioka Japan.
(10)Fruit Tree Research Institute, Uki, Japan Fruit Tree Research Institute Uki 
Japan.
(11)Semboku Regional Development Bureau, Akita Prefecture, Daisen, Japan Semboku 
Regional Development Bureau, Akita Prefecture Daisen Japan.
(12)Department of Business Development, National Agricultural Research 
Organization, Tsukuba, Japan Department of Business Development, National 
Agricultural Research Organization Tsukuba Japan.
(13)Department of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries, Tottori Prefecture, 
Higashimachi, Japan Department of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries, Tottori 
Prefecture Higashimachi Japan.
(14)Fukushima Agricultural Technology Centre, Fruit Tree Research Centre, 
Fukushima, Japan Fukushima Agricultural Technology Centre, Fruit Tree Research 
Centre Fukushima Japan.
(15)Shimane Agricultural Technology Center, Izumo, Japan Shimane Agricultural 
Technology Center Izumo Japan.
(16)Tea Research Insutitute, Kumamoto Prefecture, Mifune, Japan Tea Research 
Insutitute, Kumamoto Prefecture Mifune Japan.
(17)Institute of Fruit Tree and Tea Science, National Agriculture and Food 
Research Organization, Morioka, Japan Institute of Fruit Tree and Tea Science, 
National Agriculture and Food Research Organization Morioka Japan.
(18)Eastern Shimane Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries Promotion Center, Izumo, 
Japan Eastern Shimane Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries Promotion Center Izumo 
Japan.
(19)Fukushima Agricultural Technology Centre, Koriyama, Japan Fukushima 
Agricultural Technology Centre Koriyama Japan.
(20)Faculty of Life and Environmental Sciences, University of Tsukuba, Tsukuba, 
Japan Faculty of Life and Environmental Sciences, University of Tsukuba Tsukuba 
Japan.

Animal-mediated pollination is an essential ecosystem service for the production 
of many fruit trees. To reveal the community composition of flower-visiting wild 
insects which potentially contribute to fruit production and to examine the 
effects of geographic location, local meteorological conditions and locally 
introduced domesticated pollinators on them, we investigated the community 
composition of insects visiting the flowers (hereafter, "visitors") of apple, 
Japanese pear and Oriental persimmon for 1‒3 years at 20 sites around Japan. 
While most of the variation (82%) of the community composition was explained by 
tree species with a slight contribution by geographic distance (2%), maximum 
temperature and tree species contributed 62% and 41% of the variation in total 
abundance of the visitors, respectively. Though the dominant families of the 
visitors varied spatiotemporally, the community composition of the visitors of 
apple and Japanese pear clearly differed from that of Oriental persimmon. While 
Andrenidae and Syrphidae together accounted for 46%‒64% of the visitors of apple 
and Japanese pear, Apidae represented 57% of the visitors of Oriental persimmon. 
The taxonomic richness, diversity and evenness of the visitors were best 
predicted by locally introduced domesticated pollinators and local 
meteorological conditions of wind speed and maximum temperature. Amongst these 
selected factors, locally introduced domesticated pollinators could have the 
largest impact. It seemed to be strongly related to the reduction of taxonomic 
richness, diversity and evenness of the visitors, accounting for 41‒89% of the 
variation. Results suggested that the community composition and total abundance 
of potential pollinators were predominantly determined by tree species and 
temperature, but locally introduced domesticated pollinators could have a 
determinantal pressure on the taxonomic diversity of the community.

Shoko Nakamura, Hisatomo Taki, Tomonori Arai, Ken Funayama, Shunsuke Furihata, 
Yuki Furui, Takamasa Ikeda, Hiromitsu Inoue, Kiyohiko Kagawa, Hidenari 
Kishimoto, Mitsuko Kohyama, Michiyo Komatsu, Akihiro Konuma, Ken Nakada, Suguru 
Nakamura, Nobuo Sawamura, Shoji Sonoda, Masahiro Sueyoshi, Seishi Toda, 
Katsuhiko Yaginuma, Shunsuke Yamamoto, Koki Yoshida, Tomoyuki Yokoi, Masatoshi 
Toyama.

DOI: 10.3897/BDJ.11.e100955
PMCID: PMC10504601
PMID: 37720662

Conflict of interest statement: No conflict of interest to declare Disclaimer: 
This article is (co-)authored by any of the Editors-in-Chief, Managing Editors 
or their deputies in this journal.


825. Nervenarzt. 2023 Dec;94(12):1097-1105. doi: 10.1007/s00115-023-01543-y. Epub
 2023 Sep 18.

[Secondary surgical procedures following motor nerve injuries].

[Article in German; Abstract available in German from the publisher]

Heinzel J(1), Prahm C(2), Lauer H(2), Daigeler A(2), Hurth H(3), Schuhmann M(3), 
Kolbenschlag J(3).

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Hand‑, Plastische, Rekonstruktive und Verbrennungschirurgie, BG 
Unfallklinik Tübingen, Eberhard Karls Universität Tübingen, 
Schnarrenbergstr. 95, 72076, Tübingen, Deutschland. jheinzel@bgu-tuebingen.de.
(2)Klinik für Hand‑, Plastische, Rekonstruktive und Verbrennungschirurgie, BG 
Unfallklinik Tübingen, Eberhard Karls Universität Tübingen, 
Schnarrenbergstr. 95, 72076, Tübingen, Deutschland.
(3)Klinik für Neurochirurgie am Universitätsklinikum Tübingen, Eberhard Karls 
Universität Tübingen, Tübingen, Deutschland, Hoppe-Seyler-Straße 3, 72076.

BACKGROUND: The functional deficits that develop after a peripheral nerve injury 
mean a considerable reduction in the quality of life for the affected patients. 
However, interventions on the injured nerve are not always possible or 
effective. In this case, secondary procedures, e.g. tendon transfers, are 
a feasible option for functional reconstruction.
OBJECTIVES: An overview of the most common secondary surgical procedures for 
functional reconstruction after peripheral nerve injuries.
METHODS: Presentation and discussion of the most common secondary surgical 
procedures with emphasis on tendon transfers. Illustration of the primary 
functions that need to be reconstructed depending on the respective nerve 
lesion.
RESULTS: The basic principle of secondary surgical procedures after nerve 
injuries is the transposition of a healthy tendomuscular unit to replace a lost 
function following a loss of muscle or tendon or if an intervention on the nerve 
is not promising. For example, by transferring flexor forearm muscles, wrist, 
finger and thumb extension can be reconstructed after radial nerve injury. By 
transposing the tibialis posterior muscle, dorsiflexion in the talocrural joint 
can be restored to enable the affected patient to walk safely without an 
orthosis.
CONCLUSIONS: Secondary surgical procedures are a valuable option for functional 
reconstruction after nerve injury.

Publisher: ZUSAMMENFASSUNG: HINTERGRUND: Die nach einer peripheren 
Nervenverletzungen entstehenden funktionellen Defizite bedeuten für die 
betroffenen Patienten eine erhebliche Einschränkung der Lebensqualität. Jedoch 
sind Eingriffe am verletzten Nerv nicht immer möglich oder zielführend. 
Motorische Ersatzoperationen stellen in diesem Fall eine sinnvolle Option zur 
funktionellen Rekonstruktion dar.
FRAGESTELLUNG: Übersicht über die gängigsten sekundären operativen Verfahren zur 
funktionellen Rekonstruktion nach Verletzungen peripherer Nerven.
MATERIAL UND METHODEN: Darstellung und Diskussion der gängigsten sekundären 
operativen Verfahren mit Schwerpunkt auf Sehnentransfers. Veranschaulichung der 
primär zu rekonstruierenden Funktionen abhängig von der jeweiligen Nervenläsion.
ERGEBNISSE: Das Grundprinzip sekundärer operativer Verfahren nach 
Nervenverletzungen ist die Transposition einer gesunden tendomuskulären Einheit 
zum Ersatz einer verlorenen Funktion, wenn es zum Verlust von Muskeln oder 
Sehnen gekommen oder ein Eingriff am Nerv nicht erfolgversprechend ist. Durch 
einen Transfer beugeseitiger Unterarmmuskeln können beispielsweise die 
Handgelenks‑, Finger- und Daumenextension nach einer Verletzung des N. radialis 
rekonstruiert werden. Durch die Transposition des M. tibialis posterior kann die 
Dorsalextension im oberen Sprunggelenk wiederhergestellt werden, um den 
betroffenen Patienten einen sicheren Gang ohne Orthese zu ermöglichen.
SCHLUSSFOLGERUNG: Motorische Ersatzoperationen stellen eine wertvolle Option zur 
funktionellen Rekonstruktion nach Nervenverletzungen dar.

© 2023. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Medizin Verlag GmbH, 
ein Teil von Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00115-023-01543-y
PMID: 37721574 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


826. JAMA Netw Open. 2023 Sep 5;6(9):e2331155. doi: 
10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2023.31155.

Methods for Using Race and Ethnicity in Prediction Models for Lung Cancer 
Screening Eligibility.

Landy R(1), Gomez I(1)(2), Caverly TJ(3), Kawamoto K(4), Rivera MP(5), Robbins 
HA(6), Young CD(1)(7), Chaturvedi AK(1), Cheung LC(1), Katki HA(1).
